Congress Remains Puzzled By Facebooks Motivations For Libra After Zuckerberg Testifies performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Hank Tucker Forbes Staff Markets I'm an assistant editor on Forbes' money team. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Rep. Warren Davidson, R-Ohio, is the co-sponsor of the Token Taxonomy Act aiming to provide more ... [+] regulatory clarity for cryptocurrencies.CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty ImagesFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerbergs six-hour testimony that made headlines for his stammering responses to interrogations about Facebooks content moderation and fact-checking policies left members of Congress who wanted to address the actual purpose of the hearing with unanswered questions.Zuckerberg appeared before the House Committee on Financial Services ostensibly to provide an update and more clarity on plans for Facebooks libra cryptocurrency and Calibra digital wallet. But he still never clearly explained how Facebook is expecting to profit from libra, and, if the project isnt about money, why its taking on such a complex venture at all.I just look at the number of tokens that are already out there that propose to do similar things. It seems like if you were a board member at Facebook, youd think, why would we want the liability of dealing with the underlying value of the token when we really just want to do business via our wallet using our platform, Congressman Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) told Forbes a day after the hearing. Whats not clear to a lot of people is, whats in it for you guys?Davidson is a leading voice on the blockchain industry in Congress as the co-sponsor of the Token Taxonomy Act, which would provide more regulatory clarity for cryptocurrencies and exempt some digital assets from federal securities laws. He questioned Zuckerberg about his vision for the future of distributed ledger technologies and whether the money associated with libra could be decentralized.Zuckerberg responded that he does not think Facebook is in a position to add to the decentralized nature of the space and that its simply trying to create a payment system based on a reserve of existing currencies, not an entirely new currency. Davidson acknowledges Facebooks desire to keep libra stable, but maintained that the way its currently planned, it would have to be regulated as a security. Their current proposal is that it would be a mixture of currencies, a synthetic currency, but it would also have short-term securities traded to keep it stable, Davidson says. If your product trades securities, then it is a security. To say that it isnt, then every mutual fund would simply say, well, were a token. Were not a mutual fund. We want to be regulated as a token.Libras future remains murky. Only 21 companies and nonprofits remain in the Libra Association after some of its biggest players, including PayPal, Visa and Mastercard, all backed out. And although Zuckerberg has pledged to cooperate with regulators, there is still red tape to negotiate and politicians to appease before libra can be launched.Davidson is grateful that Facebooks plans have made more people aware of the benefits of blockchain and cryptocurrencies, but not all of his colleagues share his optimism for the industry. Congressman Brad Sherman (D-Calif.) used his time to blast bitcoin as a haven for criminals, and financial services committee chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) didnt hide her contempt in her opening statement to Wednesdays hearing. It would be beneficial for all if Facebook concentrates on addressing its many existing deficiencies and failures before proceeding any further on the libra project, Waters said. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Send me a secure tip. Hank Tucker I'm an assistant editor at Forbes covering money & markets. I recently graduated from Duke with a degree in math and a certificate in journalism. Before arriving at... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

