Facebook Hints At Plans To Restrict Controversial Microtargeted Political AdsReport performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Isabel Togoh Forbes Staff Retail I cover breaking news. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has previously said the company would not fact check political ads, ... [+] citing free speech concerns.ASSOCIATED PRESSTopline: Facebook is consulting ad buyers on how it can curtail political adverts that target narrow sections of users, the Wall Street Journal reported, as the tech giant faces a growing chorus of critics demanding action on political advertising.The advertising tactic, known as microtargeting, is used by brands, political parties and candidates to target small groups of of people in a tailored way. Critics warn that the tactic has been used to push false claims and misinformation to targeted groups in a bid to sway voters.In a bid to address this, Facebook is reportedly considering increasing the minimum target size of political advertisements to "thousands" of people according to Wall Street Journal sources. Facebook is also reported to be asking large Democratic and Republican ad buyers to advise on other ways to stop the spread of false claims.The WSJ story follows Politicos interview with Facebook policy chief Nick Clegg in July, in which he said the company was considering pulling back on microtargeting.Facebook and Google are the dominant players in the market for digital political advertising that was worth $1.6 billion in 2016, according to consultants Borrell Associates Inc. Google stole a march when it announced on Wednesday a ban on adverts targeting people based on their political party, but will still allow gender, age and location-targeted ads. Twitters ban on all political advertising starts from today.Facebook continues to face pressure over its decision in September not to fact-check ads from political campaigns..Key background: Facebook has more than 240 million monthly active users in the U.S. and Canada. It has also said it would not fact-check political ads. Founder Mark Zuckerberg defended the move by saying that private companies shouldnt censor politicians. But whats more likely is that the company is hedging against the risk of angering both Republican and Democrats. Facebook has been under increasing pressure to harden its stance on political advertising, with less than a year to go until the 2020 U.S. presidential election.Ellen Weintraub, the chair of the Federal Election Commission, has backed calls for a ban on microtargeted political adverting. Tangent: Actor Sacha Baron Cohen launched a tirade against Facebook on Thursday, calling the platform part of the greatest propaganda machine in history along with Twitter, YouTube, Google and others.Giving an acceptance speech at the ADL International Leadership Awards on Thursday, he called on Facebook to abolish microtargeted ads and start fact-checking political ads and return the money to ad buyers seeking to publish false adverts. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Isabel Togoh I am a breaking news reporter for Forbes in London, covering Europe and the U.S. Previously I was a news reporter for HuffPost UK, the Press Association and a night rep... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

