Apple Bets On Jennifer Aniston And The Morning Show For Streaming Debut performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Dawn Chmielewski Forbes Staff Innovation Im an LA-based senior editor for Forbes, covering streaming video. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon attend the Apple TV+'s "The Morning Show" World Premiere ... [+] at David Geffen Hall.Getty ImagesThe Morning Shows New York premiere had the familiar trappings of a Hollywood affair: stars Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon walking a carpet that stretched the length of Lincoln Center Plaza as photographers captured their arrival and onlookers gawked.A giant illuminated Apple TV+ logo signaled that this particular premiere was different. It commemorated the technology giants entry into the streaming wars.The Morning Show debuts Friday on Apple TV+, one of eight original series that anchor the new streaming service. The big-budget drama, which revolves around a Matt Lauer-esque #MeToo scandal involving the male anchor of a television morning show, is the services marquee offering.It was one of the first shows put in motion by veteran television executives Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg, who joined Apple in 2017At The Morning Shows premiere, Erlicht talked about how he and Van Amburg heard the pitch for the series on their third day on the job at Apple.We knew right away this was the one, Erlicht said, according to a recording of the presentation obtained by Forbes. It was everything we were hoping to do. It was a show loaded with layers and subtext, it was about something real, and honestly, it didnt hurt that it was exec-produced and stars Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer Aniston.Trouble was, they didnt know how to order paper clips for the office, let alone a series. There were no employees, no business affairs staff, no negotiators and no budget. It would take three to four months to close the deal, Erlich said, with per-episode costs that approach that of HBOs Game of Thrones, according to one source familiar with the financing.The negotiation was not easy. In fact Ill say nothing about this show has been what I would describe as easy, Erlich said. But the great ones never are. And thats what The Morning Show is. A great one.The show represents Anistons return to television 15 years after saying goodbye to her Emmy Award-winning portrayal as Rachel Green on Friends. Whether she and co-stars Witherspoon and Steve Carell can attract viewers to the nascent service will be an early test of Apples decision to build its own original slate of TV shows.The Apple TV+ service will compete for attention with newcomers Disney+, WarnerMedias HBO Max and NBCUniversals Peacock. All are seeking to capitalize on the streaming phenomenon ignited by Netflix, which has amassed more than 60 million subscribers in the U.S. and even more internationally.Apple, like Amazon, is positioning its streaming service as a perquisite that supports its main business. The iPhone-maker is offering one years free access with the purchase of a new device (others can access it through the Apple TV app for $5 a month).Its a gift to our users and, from a business point of view, were really proud of the content, said Apple CEO Tim Cook during Wednesdays investor call. Wed like as many people as possible to view it. This allows us to focus on maximizing subscribers, particularly in the early going. We think its a bold move.Morgan Stanley projects that Apple TV+ could become a $9 billion business by 2025 if just one out of every ten Apple user subscribes to the streaming service. That would further propel Apples fast-growing services business, which reported a record $12.5 billion in revenue for the September quarter.Apple has been working toward this moment for the last two years, starting with the recruitment of Erlicht and Van Amburg, who as presidents of Sony Pictures Television had developed a roster of acclaimed shows including Better Call Saul, Breaking Bad, The Crown and The Shield. Apples first original series, Planet of the Apps, in which entrepreneurs pitch their ideas to celebrity investors Jessica Alba, Gwyneth Paltrow, will.i.am and Gary Vaynerchuk, took a critical drubbing as both boring and self-indulgent.Erlicht and Van Amburg set out in search of shows that would fit with the image Apple burnished for itself through brand-defining ad campaigns like 1997s Think Different promotion, where it aligned itself with the Crazy Ones who changed the worldAlbert Einstein, Bob Dylan, Amelia Earhart, Pablo Picasso.We believe deeply in the power of creativity, Cook said at an event in March where the company announced Apple TV+. Our products help people express their creativity and tell their stories, because great stories can change the world. Great stories can move us and inspire us. They can challenge our assumptions.Apple courted world-class talent, including Oscar-winning director Steven Spielberg and acclaimed talk show host and media mogul Oprah Winfrey, who would bring prestige to the service. But it was wary of themes that might offend Apple consumers, including gratuitous violence or unflattering depictions of religion, say Hollywood insiders familiar with these conversations.This fall, the tech giant scrapped a high-profile project, Bastards, in which Richard Gere was to star as one of two elderly Vietnam veterans who go on a shooting spree to avenge the death of a woman they both loved. Sources told The Hollywood Reporter that Apple was worried about the shows exploration of vigilante justice and instead urged a story line built around the vets enduring friendship.Cook personally made the decision in 2016 to shut down Apples first scripted project, Vital Signs, a semi-autobiographical tale of its star, Dr. Dre, which contained scenes of cocaine use, a mansion orgy and gun brandishing, the Wall Street Journal reported.But that was before Erlicht and Van Amburg took the helm and sought to build bridges in a wary Hollywood. They would have to overcome nervousness about a product that was shrouded in secrecy and grumbling over the tech giants tone-deaf decision in 2014 to force a free copy of the U2 album Songs of Innocence on everyone with an iTunes account, whether they wanted it or not.There have been occasional missteps.Celebrities, studio executives and deal-makers traveled to Cupertino on a cool March morning to take part in Apples much anticipated launch of its subscription video service. But in a snub, major Hollywood figures whod made the pilgrimage northincluding directors Ron Moore and M. Night Shyamalannever made it onstage.Everyone in the room was left guessing about key details of the Apple TV+ service, including the launch date and pricing. Indeed, as Apple prepared to make its big move on Hollywood, the technology giant still clung to the rituals of a tightly controlled product launch.Even so, Apple was able to overcome these obstacles and attract big-name talent.The launch lineup of original series include For All Mankind, an alternate telling of the space race from Moore; Dickinson, a coming-of-age story featuring Hailee Steinfeld as the rebellious young poet Emily Dickinson; and See, set in the distant future, after a virus has ravaged the planet and left the survivors blind, starring Jason Momoa. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Dawn Chmielewski Im a Los Angeles-based senior editor for Forbes, writing about the companies and people behind the biggest disruption in entertainment since cable TV: streaming video. ... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

