First Came Google and Microsoft Now Intel Plans To Invest More In Taiwan performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Ralph Jennings Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Asia Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Bob Swan, chief executive officer of Intel Corp., poses for a photograph at the company's ... [+] headquarter in Taipei, Taiwan, on Tuesday, Oct. 8, 2019. Intel hopes that the U.S. and China can eventually resolve differences and eliminate tariffs, said Swan. Photographer: Ashley Pon/Bloomberg 2019 Bloomberg Finance LPA whos who of global tech firms said over the past 18 months that they would expand their operations in Taiwan. Google, Microsoft and IBMto name just a fewled 2018 with announcements of plans to add staffing for R&D in new technologies. This month, Intel, the largest chipmaker in the U.S. by revenue, indicated that it would invest more in Taiwan to work better with its partners on the island long known for making tech hardware.Intel probably hopes the investment will align it more with Taiwanese PC makers that already buy Intel processors but could potentially do a lot more if relations were tighter, tech analysts say. Intel may be examining Taiwans talent and proximity to the China market as well, they add, while scoping out a potential Taiwanese contractor.Theres a lot of R&D coming into Taiwan, and anyone whos anybody seems to be here, says John Brebeck, senior adviser at the Quantum International Corp. investment consultancy in Taiwan. We have so many semiconductor engineers, so it makes sense.Taking chips, and profits, to higher levelsTaiwan ranks No. 4 in the world among regions that generate income for Intel, and the island produced about 16% of the companys overall profits from 2016 to 2018, market research firm TrendForce in Taipei believes. Taiwan is home to the PC giants Acer, Asustek, Compal and Quanta. So many Intel chips lurk inside these brands that last years CPU shortage took aim at some of their revenues. The world PC market grew 4.7% in the third quarter this year to 70.9 million units, the strongest quarterly gain since the first three months of 2012, market research firm Canalys says.More on Forbes: Intel And AMDs Biggest Cloud Threat May Be An Open X86 Instruction SetBut the Taiwan formula isnt just about pure chip sales. Intel earned those profits on Taiwans longstanding competency in the global notebook-desktop computer and server supply chains including making components and assembling products, TrendForce analyst C.Y. Yao says. These product lines account for a significant proportion of Intels current revenue-generating model, making Taiwan strategically indispensable to the company.Intel reported $70.8 billion in 2018 revenue and net income of $21.1 billion, both stronger than a year earlier. The company employs more than 107,000 people and ranks second after Samsung as the worlds top maker of microprocessors.Intel CEO met partners in TaipeiIntel Chief Executive Officer Bob Swan visited Taiwan in early October for a dinner with 80 local partners to learn more about what theyre making, a company spokesperson in Taipei confirmed for this report.Taiwan plays an important role with its technology ecosystem, Intel says in a statement for this report. The firm eventually expects breakthrough innovations beyond delivering CPUs, the statement says.Although Intel wouldnt confirm any specific details, TrendForces Yao says Intel will probably use Taiwans supply chain and tech ecosystem to work with local partners on co-developing products that are natural spinoffs from chip manufacturing. The new inventions would cover accelerator cards and modules that hold CPUs, for example, the analyst says.Intel may want to learn more about Taiwan-based TSMC, a giant factory complex that makes chips on contract, Brebeck says. Intel has explored outsourcing its chip production to TSMC, per this local news report.The usual list of Taiwan advantagesAnalysts who follow Taiwans tech industry believe Intel is looking at the Asian island for the same reasons that motivated expansions of other tech companies, including Qualcomm and the American memory chip maker Micron Technology. A lot those investors bulked up here to hire relatively inexpensive engineering talent and inventions backed up by intellectual property laws stronger than found in mainland China, a possible end-market for microprocessors. Based on what Intel already does in Taiwan, its likely to focus more on sales, marketing and localized tech support, Yao adds.I believe Intel is also part of the trend, says Liang Kuo-yuan, president of the Taipei-based economic think tank Yuanta-Polaris Research Institute. Taiwan after all has scientific and technical universities. Intel might hope to sell in China, but would rather get the products ready in Taiwan, Liang says. In Taiwan, he says, The real knowledge content wont slip out.Ken Lau, Intel Taiwan site manager, speaks during a news conference in Taipei, Taiwan.BLOOMBERG NEWS Follow me on Twitter. Ralph Jennings As a news reporter I have covered some of everything since 1988, from my alma mater U.C. Berkeley to the Great Hall of the People in Beijing where I followed Communist o... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

