With Acquisition Of Latent Logic, Waymo Adds Imitation Learning To Self-Driving Training performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Liane Yvkoff Senior Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Transportation I write about bleeding edge automotive technology. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Waymo CEO John Krafcik speaks at the IAA 2019 Frankfurt Auto Show on September 12, 2019.Getty ImagesWaymo is running 10,000 virtual vehicles through scenarios 24 hours a day and has logged more than 10 billion computer simulated miles. Now its learning environments will have a new tool to simulate human behavior. The self-driving taxi company announced the acquisition of Latent Logic, a start-up spun out of Oxford University that developed an imitation learning system to train autonomous vehicles.Latent Logic was founded in 2017 in part by Shimon Whiteson, a professor and head of the Whiteson Research Lab (WhiRL) machine learning research group inthe Department of Computer Science at Oxford University in the U.K. The start-up is one of many companies developing systems that can train autonomous vehicles. But while several machine learning platforms use reinforcement learning to teach autonomous sytems how to drive, Latent Logics agents employ immitation learning. In reinforcement-learning environments, an engineer overseeing the machine flags good behavior when the system performs correctly so that the next time it encounters a similar situation, it knows what to do. But every situation is different, and the real world is unpredictable. Reinforcement learning has the drawback of encouraging behavior that maximizes reward rather than helping machines learn to behave more like humans in complex driving environments. Latent Logic uses data collected from traffic cam videos, and analyzes it to develop policies that simulate realistic models of human behavior on the road. By imitating the behavior of humans, Latent Logic is aiming for realistic instead of perfect behaviour. With expertise and technology from Latent Logic, Waymo will be able to make better use of the data gathered from more than 10 million miles its fleet of 600 self-driving vehicles have recorded, and improve its simulation environment.No financial details on the acquisition were given. Latent Logic will continue to operate in Oxford as part of the research group, and is Waymos first European engineering hub.Update: This article was updated to clarify that Waymo currently uses real-world data to train its self-driving vehicles. Follow me on Twitter. Liane Yvkoff Im an automotive technology and lifestyle writer covering alternative powertrains, transportation startups, next-generation infotainment systems, and basically anythin... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

