Can Googles Non-Advertising Revenue Streams Mitigate Impact Of Slowing Advertising Growth? performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Trefis Team Contributor Great Speculations Contributor Group Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin SHANGHAI, CHINA - SEPTEMBER 10: People attend Google Developer Days (GDD) China 2019 on September ... [+] 10, 2019 in Shanghai, China. (Photo by Lyu Liang/VCG via Getty Images)VCG via Getty ImagesAlphabet (NASDAQ: GOOGL), Googles parent company, reported Q3 revenues recently that were ahead of consensus expectations due to the companys growing strength in the cloud business even as some of its other bets begin paying off. While Googles core advertising revenues have been under pressure over recent months from increased regulatory scrutiny, the company has done well to focus on growth in its non-advertising revenue streams. And we expect this trend to continue to boost Googles top line over coming years, as we highlight in our interactive dashboard for Googles Revenues.In Q3, Google Cloud, Fiber and Verily drove revenues. The quarter also saw Google staking its claim to quantum supremacy. Quantum supremacy refers to the ability of a quantum computer to perform computations that traditional computers cannot. These and a string of other non-advertising offerings will be the key to Googles growth going forward.Googles Business ModelWhat Need Does It Serve?Google primarily makes money through online advertising, purchase of digital content on Google Play, sale of hardware and sales of cloud subscription (Google Cloud Platform and G Suite).What Are The Alternatives?Competitors include Facebook (advertising), Amazon (cloud, advertising), Microsoft (cloud, search, advertising, gaming, business software), IBM (cloud, computing) and Oracle (cloud, databases) among others.Has 3 Operating SegmentsGoogle advertising: Segment revenues were derived from online advertising across Googles own websites and from placement of ads across third party websites.Google Other: Segment revenues were derived from the sale of digital content on Google Play, hardware and sale of cloud subscription.Other Bets: This segment houses all of Googles incubation projects and bets on nascent technologies.A Quick Look At Googles Revenuesoogles revenue grew 51.6% over 2016 to 2018 to $136.8 bn and is expected to increase 49% to nearly $203.4 bn by 2020.Googles 3 divisions (1) Google Advertising Revenues, (2) Google Other Revenues and (3) Other Bets Revenues are expected to contribute $142.4 bn (83.3%), $27.9 bn (16.3%) and $0.7 bn (0.4%) respectively to the companys 2019 revenue of $171 bn.Google Advertising Division revenue growth of $50 bn over the next two years is likely to be driven by greater monetization of video format ads (especially YouTube) and greater analytics driven ad targeting.Google Other Division revenue growth of $16.3 bn over the next two years is likely to be driven by cloud revenues.Other Bets Division revenue growth of $0.3 bn over the next two years is likely to be driven by newer technologies such as quantum computing and autonomous driving.Additional details about how Googles revenues by division have changed over the years is available in our interactive dashboard.TrefisWhats behind Trefis? See How Its Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs ForCFOs and Finance Teams|Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Exploreexample interactive dashboardsand create your own Trefis Team Led by MIT engineers and Wall Street analysts, Trefis (through its dashboards platform dashboards.trefis.com) helps you understand how a company's products, that you tou... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

