Google Claims Quantum Supremacy, IBM Says "Nope" -- Unpacking What's Important performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Forrester Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Enterprise & Cloud Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin FILE - This July 19, 2016, file photo shows the Google logo at the company's headquarters in... [+] Mountain View, Calif. Google is expected to unveil a new Pixel phone with an updated camera and an emphasis on artificial intelligence features. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez, File) ASSOCIATED PRESS Themedia has flooded the internet with Googles claim of quantum supremacy Googles recent paper in Nature explains how its latest quantum processor, Sycamore, solved a random number generation problem in 200 seconds; their paper further claimed would take the best supercomputer today 10,000 years to do the same. IBM immediately counterclaimedthat Google didnt properly run the experiment. High drama in information technology indeed Google and IBM duking it out over the future of computing! The reality of this supremacy announcement is far more mundane and nuanced. Ive spent a couple of years researching quantum computers and talking to all the major players in an attempt to sift through what is happening and what, if anything, our clients need to know about it. Im going to set down in plain English here what I think is going on and what is most important. Im wont hash through the basics, as Ive written a couple of reports and blogs you can read to get up to speed on that here: Why HPE Walked Away From Quantum Computing . . . And Where It Went Instead Who Should Care About Quantum Computing? Further, all the quantum vendors have useful basic information on their websites.In this blog I will explain quantum supremacy in detail, perhaps debunk a myth or two, and put the real achievement in a proper perspective. Quantum Supremacy Does Not Mean Quantum Computers Will Replace Digital Ones It is natural to assume at that quantum supremacy is a universal proclamation that quantum computers are better than classical computers. One might also conclude that the end is near for our smartphones, encryption is no longer safe, and firms with quantum computers will soon start crushing their competitors with techno voodoo. While Im saying these things tongue-in-cheek, many will naturally apply their understanding of digital or classical computers to quantum computers and draw conclusions that simply arent true.I tell clients that to understand quantum computing, you first need to forget what you know about todays computers. They simply dont work like that or do the same things. Foremost, classical computers are universal, which means they can solve almost any type of problem we can express in terms of ones and zeros. Note I said almost any problem. There are certain classes of problems on the frontiers of computer science theory that we cant practically solve with classical computers. Enter quantum computers that, in theory, could solve some of these.This means thatquantum computers wont replace todays computers they will work alongside themto eventually solve real-world, useful problems. For example, quantum computers will likely help model far more complex molecular states of materials in chemical processes. Big deal? You bet, because there are new drugs, new types of electric batteries, new products to be made, and so on waiting to be discovered if we had a working quantum computer enter the supremacy debate. Googles Supremacy Claim Unpacked An Important Milestone If It Stands Supremacy is important because we need hard proof that quantum computers are better in some cases in order to justify further investment. We dont have that proof right now, which kind of boggles my mind. Quantum supremacy for a specific type of problem is a piece of that proof.There are plenty of definitions of quantum supremacy online if you care to search, but they boil down to this: Quantum supremacy means a quantum computer can do a computational task that todays classical computers cant practically perform. In the recently published paper, Quantum supremacy using a programmable superconducting processor, Google claims to have done this. But what does this mean to the average enterprise? The truth is hidden in a bunch of technical details. Here is a breakdown in near normal-people-speak: Quantum supremacy can be claimed by using a real quantum computer to solve a made-up problem.The first thing to understand about Googles work is that the problem it solved has no immediate real-world application. Google used a 54-qubit quantum computing chip (53 qubits working) called Sycamore to verify part of a random number experiment. As a matter of context, truly random numbers are useful in a large number of computing tasks, therefore Googles experiment was interesting. Google solved the problem of verifying that random numbers generated by a quantum computer are actually random. This is hard for the best classical computers to do as random number sequences grow it turns out. Scientists say this type of problem is exponential. Google hailed their achievement as a Sputnik moment Sputnik was not practical, yet it marked the beginning of the space race, but we saw that only in hindsight. Hindsight will tell if this is such a moment for now Im keeping my hat on but clapping. The supremacy definition leaves the door open for debate.As I alluded to above, the phrase practically perform is key in the debate over Googles claim. Google needed a really good classical supercomputer to show that its quantum computer is better. Ironically, they choseIBMs latest supercomputer to run the test. Google claims that it would have taken IBMs supercomputer 10,000 years to perform random number error validation computation that it did in 200 seconds. IBM countered by saying that Google didnt properly optimize the supercomputer in running the test. If properly tuned, IBM asserted, it would take their supercomputer a mere 2.5 days, not 10,000 years a real, You are stepping into my house? moment. Further, whether 2.5 days is a practical amount of time for this kind of computation (or is 200 seconds that much better?) is also up for debate. Should You Care About Quantum Supremacy Or Quantum Value? The above illustrates a problem with supremacy: It is theoretical and debatable, which means to ordinary people, its not all that useful. It is just one proof point in a body of evidence we need to have confidence in the future of quantum computers. Furthermore, in considering your response to quantum computing, understand that: Supremacy for one problem type does not mean supremacy for others.Another problem with supremacy is that its claim only applies to one problem area, like random number generation. Just because we can prove supremacy there does not guarantee supremacy for other important areas like cryptography, for example. This means that if you are a supremacy tracker, you need to track it in every problem domain you care about. My advice is to watch supremacy claims and debates and use them a part of your decision making process. Quantum supremacy does not equalquantum value.The two termsquantum supremacyandquantum valueillustrate the different approaches Google and IBM are taking. Googles claim of achieving a quantum supremacy proof point is a nontrivial achievement. IBM is downplaying Googles supremacy efforts in favor of the termquantum value. Valuemeans that a quantum computer offers some benefit over a classical computer for solving some practical problem. It is a pragmatic definition. Achieving quantum value for a problem will be very important to buyers, but there is no agreed-to method for scientifically proving quantum value. It is a subjective measure. Enterprises will have to decide for themselves if quantum value exists as part of their investment decisions. Supremacy does not set a timeline for value.This is perhaps the most important point to understand about quantum supremacy and value. Except for Googles contested claim of supremacy, no actual quantum computer can do anything that a classical computer cant do better or almost as well. In other words we do not know yet that all this hoopla about quantum computers will actually create a return on investment. We expect that Googles supremacy experiment will be debated by the research community for some time.Others will try to replicate it, researchers will conduct new experiments and, eventually, a body of proof may emerge that quiets debate. This is the scientific process, and it is going to take time. Just like supremacy, no quantum computer today has demonstrated value.Will we reach value before we stop debating supremacy? I dont know. As far as timing, IBM thinks we might get to value in 10 years or so. We will likely see a number of supremacy claims and debates along the way. The truth is that this is all just educated guessing. Quantum computers are intriguing because all this could happen in so much faster than 10 years or things might take 20 years or more. Towards Quantum Value Are We NISQing Yet? Googles claims that its achievement heralds the beginning of the NISQ era. Unless you are deep into following quantum computers, this wont mean much. It is important, however so lets unpack it. Here is what you need to know: Living up to the hype of quantum computing will require extremely powerful, error-corrected machines.For example, breaking todays PKI encryption will require quantum computers with millions of qubits; today, Google has a 54 qubit machine.IBM has just announced one, too. If qubits double every year, it will take about 15 years to get into the right range. In addition to doubling qubits, a bunch of engineering work needs to be done coupling these qubits together and suppressing the errors that tend to make qubits go bonkers and need resetting. I recommend that you think of error-corrected, universal quantum computers as the stuff of science fiction. Its a prediction of a future that might happen; but in truth, the future could be quite different. We simply dont know. NISQ means noisy intermediate-scale quantum computing that delivers value in the next 5 to 10 years.NISQ was coined byJohn Preskillto reflect a period of time before we have the error-corrected quantum computers. In the NISQ era, we will hopefully be able to use intermediate-scale, noisy quantum computers to deliver small bits of quantum value. We wont know we are in the NISQ era, however, until somebody delivers value with a quantum computer. In my opinion, Googles heralding of the NISQ era is premature. When a client tells me they have solved a real-world problem with a quantum computer, Ill post it here on the Forrester blog that we have hit NISQ. We will most likely achieve quantum value first in the field of sampling.Sampling is an extremely important but highly technical and hard to explain a technique that relies on random numbers to explore the behaviors of complex systems, among other things. It is an important research technique with applications in modeling and simulation, physical sciences, cryptography, machine learning the list goes on. It works by using a random number generator to insert a large number of random inputs into a system. Researchers study the system outputs to draw conclusions about the systems behavior. Classical computers can only generate quasi-random numbers that eventually repeat. Quantum computers can potentially generate much larger random number sequences, which can improve some experiments. Verifying that a large random number sequence is actually random is the problem Google claims to have solved. Googles experiment means that we might actually get to quantum value in sampling first. Well see. Summing It All Up: File Googles Announcement Away And Keep Learning Given all this info, what should your firm do about it? For most people reading our blog, the answer is nothing, except to try to understand what it means and watch out for other supremacy proof points and possible quantum value emergence. Heres a few insights for the future: Quantum computing must be watched, because things could change very quickly.As I hope you guessed, quantum computing is at the frontier of research. We simply do not know what the future holds. This means that it is anybodys guess how fast things will proceed. The quantum computers ability to increase in theoretical power as qubit count goes up is beyond our human minds ability to imagine. That said, there are tough engineering problems that firms such as IBM and Google, among many others, must solve. Firms that understand when to invest, what to invest in, and develop the talent to take advantage of this technology could shoot out ahead of the rest of the market like rockets or they could waste valuable time and money. We believe that the accelerating pace of technology evolution will keep the rich rich.No longer do small, nimble disruptors that understand agile, cloud and big data have the advantage. Everyone understands these and is working to be much faster, more agile, and more connected. Our research shows that firms with the power to be adaptive and drive innovation with technology like quantum computersare growing at 4x industry average growth rates. They have the money and freedom from investors to keep accelerating innovation. Its a classic cycle: In the foreseeable future, rich, tech-savvy companies will keep getting richer and more tech-savvy. This is why Google can throw so much money at quantum computing. And why technology laggards are right to be worried. Your big dilemma with quantum computing is finding the wherewithal to jump in and experiment now.I am convinced after several years of research that quantum computing will be as significant as the invention of the printing press. Its going to take longer than many expect but will still happen faster than most firms can prepare for. Knowing this, you have to make smart decisions so that your firm is ready before quantum value is achieved in a business area that matters. That is a difficult challenge given all the current problems most firms need to pay attention to. This post was written by VP, Principal Analyst Brian Hopkins, and originally appeared here. Forrester Forrester (Nasdaq: FORR) is one of the most influential research and advisory firms in the world. We work with business and technology leaders to develop customer-obses... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

