How Does AT&T Make Money? performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Trefis Team Contributor Great Speculations Contributor Group Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Pedestrians pass by the AT&T store on Broadway in New York, U.S., on Tuesday, April 22, 2008. AT&T ... [+] Inc., the biggest U.S. telephone company, said first-quarter profit rose 22 percent on sales of Apple Inc.'s iPhone and savings from a plan to cut 10,000 jobs after its 2006 purchase of BellSouth Corp. Photographer: Tom Starkweather/Bloomberg NewsBLOOMBERG NEWSIn this note, we discuss the revenue segments of AT&T (NYSE: T), their historical performance, and expected trajectory over the next two years. You can view our interactive dashboard analysis ~ AT&T Revenues: How Does AT&T Make Money? ~ for more details.What Are AT&Ts Key Business Segments?Communications: This segment includes Mobility which provides wireless service and equipment, Entertainment and Business Wireless which provides video, internet, and voice communications services to residential customers and business customers, respectively.Warner Media: It develops, produces, and distributes feature films, television, gaming and other content over various physical and digital formats.Latin America Segment: It provides Pay TV services in Latin America and wireless service and equipment in Mexico.Xandr: It provides advertising services.What Are The Alternatives?Wireless Carriers: Verizon Wireless, Sprint and T-Mobile, and regional carriers such as U.S. Cellular and C-Spire.Video/Broadband: Amrica Mvil and TelefnicaLegacy Voice and Data: Orange Business Services, BT, Singapore Telecommunications Limited, and Verizon Communications IncMedia: Disney, Viacom, CBS, Netflix, Comcast, Apple, AmazonRevenues have grown 4% from $163.7 billion in 2016 to $170.7 billion in 2018, we expect this growth rate to increase by 7% over the next two years. Trefis 1) Communications revenues are expected to drop by 3% in 2019This segments revenues have declined by 3% over the last two years from $154.2 billion in 2016 to $144.6 billion in 2018, we expect this trend to continue in the next two years as well, due to declining revenues from Entertainment segment and Postpaid subscriptions. Declines in Entertainment and Business Wireline segments over the years were driven by continued declines in legacy voice and data products, shifts to over-the-top video offerings, and change to unlimited wireless plans and lower wireless handset sales and upgrades.Postpaid revenues declined due to falling average revenue per user. We expect this trend to continue driven by lower price plans and promotional activities. (1.1) Postpaid Revenues Could Decline 4% In Next Two Years On the Back of Growing Competition2) Warner Media is expected to cross $33 billion by 2019.Time Warners acquisition in 2018 led to this segment. We expect growth on the back of box-office revenues and licensing fees.3) Latin America Segment could decline by 9% in 2019We expect the growth rate to slow down due to foreign exchange pressures offset by related pricing actions.Whats behind Trefis? See How Its Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs ForCFOs and Finance Teams|Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Exploreexample interactive dashboardsand create your own Trefis Team Led by MIT engineers and Wall Street analysts, Trefis (through its dashboards platform dashboards.trefis.com) helps you understand how a company's products, that you tou... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

