AT&T Reaches Deal With Activist Investor To Sell Assets And Restructure Management performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Sergei Klebnikov Forbes Staff Markets I cover breaking news, with a focus on money and markets. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin The telecom giant has been under pressure to cut costs.EVA HAMBACH/AFP/Getty ImagesTopline: Facing pressure from an activist hedge fund investor, AT&T said on Monday that in addition to adding new board members, the company would divest up to $10 billion of assets in 2020 as it looks to reduce its large debt pile.The moves are in response to pressure from Elliot Management, one of Wall Streets biggest and most aggressive hedge funds, which last month revealed a $3.2 billion stake in AT&T.The fund, which pushed for cost cuts and corporate restructuring, has criticized AT&T for its jumbled management structure and several mistimed acquisitionsincluding the 2015 purchase of DirecTV, which has been hemorrhaging subscribers in recent years.To reduce its debt pile of $158 billion as of June 30, AT&T has been divesting noncore assets: It recently sold its businesses in Puerto Rico to Liberty Latin America for $1.95 billion and its majority stake in Central European Media Enterprises for $1.1 billion, for instance.So far this year, the company has reduced net debt by $12.7 billion, according to Reuters; AT&T also announced a new plan to improve revenue and profit over the next three years, hoping to fully pay off the debt from last years $80 billion purchase of Time Warner.CEO Randall Stephenson will stay on through 2020, AT&T announced, but once he retires, the roles of chairman and CEO would be split.The company also agreed to add two new board members, a response to Elliot Managements calls for new blood in AT&Ts management structure.Key background: AT&T has been transforming itself from a wireless phone company into a major media behemoth: It now owns a large part of Hollywood and has plans to get involved in the streaming wars. The companys big acquisition in that space was WarnerMedia (formerly Time Warner), which owns CNN, the Warner Bros. movie studio and HBO. AT&T has spent billions on shows like Friends and The Big Bang Theory to stream as part of its new HBO Max streaming service, which could be priced between $15 to $18 per month, CNBC reported.News peg: The company reported mixed third-quarter earnings on Monday: Overall revenue fell to $44.6 billion, from $45.7 billion a year earlier, while profit came in at 94 cents per shareabove the 93 cents expected. TV customers continued to flee in droves, however.Crucial quote: We commend AT&T for the positive steps announced today, which will create substantial and enduring shareholder value at one of Americas greatest companies, Elliott Management said in a statement Monday. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Send me a secure tip. Sergei Klebnikov I am a New Yorkbased reporter for Forbes, covering breaking newswith a focus on financial topics. Previously, I've reported at Money Magazine, The Villager NYC, and T... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

