Psst, Let Me Tell You About The Next Google performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Jon Markman Senior Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Investing Analyzing tech stocks through the prism of cultural change. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin If youre one of those people who still believes the next Google is hiding in a garage somewhere, let me tell you the story of MapQuest.If youre old enough, or fluent in internet trivia, you recognize the name. Back in the day, say circa 2000, MapQuest wasthedestination for maps online. Then Google Maps happened.Old map of the world on a old parchment background. Vintage style. Elements of this Image Furnished ... [+] by NASA.GettySearch Engine LandreportedOct. 4 that MapQuest was sold byVerizonto System1, an adtech company. The value of the transaction was not material enough for Verizon to file paperwork.MapQuests failure to remain competitive wasnt for lack of trying. As the company struggled to compete with Google Maps beginning in 2005, MapQuest has been courted by several large internet companies.Way back in 2000, AOL came calling. Ultimately, the first global internet company paid a$1.1 billiondowry to land MapQuest. And when Verizon became the parent company, via Yahoo! in 2016, the wireless company saw a bright future for mapping, too.Executives made several attempts to revive the business with new looks, features and functionality. For a time, MapQuest was an important part of Verizons online plan.In the end, it all failed. And that failure should be a lesson in the importance of scale in the current platform economy.In a world defined by Google Maps, MapQuest simply could not compete for mindshare.Regardless of its design or utility, the company simply couldnt get users to use its mobile application.MapQuest product managers argue that Google used its dominant position in Search to the advantage of Maps. Thats probably true but it doesnt matter.Maps is perceived as best in class. And a steady stream of research and development investment plus acquisitions of smaller, nimbler firms kept the product in the lead.Crunchbase, an online database that tracks tech mergers, notes thatAlphabet, Googles parent company, has made236 strategic acquisitionssince 1999. The 2005 purchase of Where 2 Technologies became the foundation of Google Maps, according toSearch Engine Land.Larry Page, left, and Sergey Brin, co-founders of Google Inc., speak during the unveiling of the HTC ... [+] Corp. G1 mobile phone by T-Mobile USA Inc. in New York, U.S., on Tuesday, Sept. 23, 2008. The phone is the first to run on Google Inc.'s Android software and will cost $179 with a two-year contract when it goes on sale in the U.S. on Oct. 22. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg NewsBLOOMBERG NEWSThis is how the big got bigger.Talented engineers with the best ideas were swallowed up in mergers. Holdouts were pushed between a rock and a hard place. Their ideas had to be niche enough not to disrupt the tech giants, yet important enough to warrant private equity funding.Even today, thats a tough spot smaller companies find themselves in. Its debatable whether many enterprise software firms will ever make money. Most are building what amount to features on the larger tech giant platforms.Unfortunately, the gatekeepers Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud have shown a willingness to offer up those services as a free perk for using the platform.Its tough to compete with free For example, Alphabetpaid 26x salesfor Looker, a cutting-edge data analytics firm. The business will be integrated into Google Cloud.And thats the key takeaway:The next Google isnt hiding in a dusty garage somewhere in San Jose.Its probably squirreled away inside Alphabet, or likely on a shopping list.Competitors will either be acquired like Looker or meet the same fate as MapQuest.So, perhaps the best way to buy the next Google is to own Alphabet for the long haul. Follow me on Twitter. Check out my website. Jon Markman I am an investment adviser, trader, columnist and author based in Seattle. I publish or edit four daily publications: Strategic Advantage, on long-term investing; Tra... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

