Heres Why Uber Wont Quit London Despite Its Latest Ban performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Isabel Togoh Forbes Staff Retail I cover breaking news. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin ASSOCIATED PRESSTopline: Uber says it will appeal after London's transportation regulator said it would not grant it a new license to operate in the city because of safety breaches, putting the fate of the ride-hailing app, which has been used by 3.5 million Londoners, in jeopardy.Transport for London, which regulates public transportation in the U.K. capital, said it would not renew the ride-hailing apps private taxi license on Monday.The government body said it had identified a pattern of failures and regulatory breaches by Uber, including safety flaws that put its customers at risk.TFL claims that Ubers systems allowed suspended or dismissed drivers to create new accounts and carry passengers, and allowed unauthorizsed drivers to upload their pictures to other Uber drivers accounts and pick up passengers under that account. Some 14,000 passengers were affected by the latter breach.Despite a number of positive changes and improvements to Uber's culture, leadership and systems, TfL said it was not confident that these issues would not reoccur in the future. This does not mean that Uber will be off the roads from todaythe ride-hailing app can continue to operate in the U.K. capital throughout the appeals process. TfL says it will continue to scrutinizse the firm during that time.On Monday, Uber defended itself, saying it had fundamentally changed and had made passenger safety its number one priority. On the issue of drivers identity, it said it had audited every driver in London over the past two months. We have robust systems and checks in place to confirm the identity of drivers and will soon be introducing a new facial matching process, it added.Key background: The San Francisco-based firm has repeatedly clashed with TfL over the issue of safety and security since its launch in the British capital in 2012. In 2017, Londons transport regulator slammed the ride hailing app as not fit and proper when it blocked Ubers application for a five-year certificate to operate in London. Uber took legal action and was granted a 15-month reprieve in 2018, and was granted a further two-month extension in September that was set to expire at 11:59 on Monday.Uber has been banned from dozens of cities around the world over its clashes with local regulators and governments, but losing London could be a major headache for CEO Dara Khosrowshahi. Uber warned in its S-1 filling in April that a quarter of all its rides stemmed frookm place injust five cities, which includinges London, and a shutdown in any of these markets would affechit its financial results. The ride-hailing app continues to grow but announced a $1.2 billion loss in the third quarter in November while its share price has fallen 28.9% since its initial public offerlisting in May. Crucial quote: As the regulator of private hire services in London, we are required to make a decision today on whether Uber is fit and proper to hold a licensce. Safety is our absolute top priority. While we recognizse Uber has made improvements, it is unacceptable that Uber has allowed passengers to get into minicabs with drivers who are potentially unlicensed and uninsured, said Helen Chapman, director of licensing, regulation and charging at TfL.Ubers response: TfLs decision not to renew Ubers licensce in London is extraordinary and wrong, and we will appeal. We have fundamentally changed our business over the last two years and are setting the standard on safety. TfL found us to be a fit and proper operator just two months ago, and we continue to go above and beyond.On behalf of the 3.5 million riders and 45,000 licensed drivers who depend on Uber in London, we will continue to operate as normal and will do everything we can to work with TfL to resolve this situation. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Isabel Togoh I am a breaking news reporter for Forbes in London, covering Europe and the U.S. Previously I was a news reporter for HuffPost UK, the Press Association and a night rep... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

