L.A.s Quest For Transportation Fixes Pulls Waymo, Lyft And Verizon Into Urban Movement Labs Alliance performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Alan Ohnsman Forbes Staff Transportation Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti thinks a new public-private partnership with companies including ... [+] Waymo, Lyft, Avis Budget and Verizon can transform the traffic-choked city into a transportation tech hotbed.Office of Los Angeles Mayor Eric GarcettiLos Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti has a new approach to jump-start transportation innovation in the most traffic-clogged metropolis in the U.S.: a public-private alliance that opens up the city to mobility startups and experiments, backed by a range of partners initially including self-driving tech leader Waymo, ride-share operator Lyft, the Avis Budget Group and 5G service provider Verizon.The city says its Urban Movement Labs is a first-of-its-kind alliance involving tech and transportation companies, along with the operator of Los Angeles International Airport, Los Angeles Department of Transportation, the sprawling Port of Los Angeles and the L.A. Cleantech Incubator, which has been a big source of jobs for a range of clean-energy and sustainable business startups. Participants are contributing to the initiatives seven-figure budget, Garcetti said, without elaborating. Input from L.A.s diverse neighborhoods, nonprofits and academics from UCLA, the University of Southern California and Caltech will also help guide the effort.Youve got everything you want here and all we ask for is to come here and partner with us, Garcetti tells Forbes. My very modest ambition is to make L.A. the transportation technology capital of the world, a crown yet unclaimed by any city, and I think were just perfectly positioned for it.Garcetti detailed the project Thursday at CoMotion LA 2019, an annual conference highlighting the latest developments in technology and services geared toward improving urban mobility.Like most big cities, Los Angeles is struggling to provide alternatives to single-passenger car use and reverse a drop in transit ridershipeven though it has one of the most well-funded construction programs to expand light rail and subway service in the U.S. At the same time, its trying to manage explosive growth in the use of ride-share services that have brought convenience but also contributed to congestion, and the surge in micromobility scooter and bike services that eliminate some car trips but can also clog sidewalks.Reducing the impact of massive volumes of freight trucked out of the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, the countrys biggest, will also be a focus of the new effort.My very modest ambition is to make L.A. the transportation technology capital of the world. Los Angeles Mayor Eric GarcettiSelf-driving technology hasnt yet been a factor in Los Angeles, though Waymo recently deployed a small fleet of vehicles to use their advanced sensors to map heavily trafficked parts of the city, laying the groundwork to offer service there one day. Were building the worlds most experienced driver and our mission is to make it safe and easy for people and things to move around, said Ellie Casson, head of local public policy at Waymo. Were proud to be a founding member of Urban Mobility Labs, which will further innovative, accessible mobility solutions for Angelenos.A project under way at Los Angeles International Airport will move passengers from a parking ... [+] structure to the terminals via a new tram line.Office of Los Angeles Mayor Eric GarcettiThe program includes an Urban Proving Grounds Initiative to encourage testing of technology and services in different neighborhoods, that Garcetti said could range from enclosed environments like LAX to denser parts of the city such as downtown Los Angeles. One early proposal includes a range of mobility services within the Warner Center, a transit-oriented commercial development in the San Fernando Valley adjacent to the Orange Line and a train-like rapid bus service that involves Lyft.Warner Center companies are interested in how they can improve access for their employees to get to their jobs, but then also circulation within the campus, Lilly Shoup, Lyfts senior director of policy and partnerships, tells Forbes. We might be able to offer sort of shared mobility options, like shared rides or bikes and scooters, on the campus to help people get around once they're there. That connection to the Orange Line can be a really powerful way for people to think about their commute differently.Garcettis goal is to attract more private partners and startups to Urban Movement Labs, ideally getting companies to expand operations and jobs in the city while helping improve transportation. Initially, UML will be located at the L.A. Cleantech Incubator in the downtown Arts District, before spinning off to its own space, he said. Like that initiative, the goal is also to encourage new mobility players to launch in the city, where companies can come in and find a place to stay, their community, and have their first headquarters. There will also be support for training the workers those companies will need through community colleges and other local programs, he said.Its selfish because we want to see less traffic here in Los Angeles as quickly as possible, Garcetti says. Its also selfless because we realize whatever gains we get from thisgreener, more sustainable transportation, less people stuck in trafficmeans better air quality, less emissions globally. Self-driving Waymo minivans started mapping Los Angeles in October.Waymo Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Send me a secure tip. Alan Ohnsman From Los Angeles, the U.S. capital of cars and congestion, I try to make sense of technology-driven changes reshaping transportation, cities and how we get around. I've ... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

