Facebook Faces Showdown With Singapore Over New Fake News Law performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Isabel Togoh Forbes Staff Retail I cover breaking news. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin ASSOCIATED PRESSTopline: Singapore has ordered Facebook to publish a correction on a social media post from a user, in a test of a new law meant to tackle online disinformation.Singapore passed a law in October requiring companies and individuals to publish corrections under online posts the city-states government deems to be incorrect, but it remains to be seen how Facebook will react to this. Under the law, Singapores government ordered Facebook to publish a correction notice under a November 23 post by Alex Tan, editor of the fringe politics blog States Times Review.Authorities had initially ordered Tan to correct the post, which he refused to do. In the post, he claimed that Singapores ruling Peoples Action Party (PAP) rigged elections and that a supposed whistleblower had been arrested. As of Friday, Tans post on the States Times Facebook page remains unedited by Facebook. The Singaporean government agency responsible for the law says it is investigating Tan for what it says is his failure to comply, according to local reports.What does the law cover?The Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act came into force on October 2.Individuals or companies accused of breaching the law are given an order to post a correction. Penalties for breaching the law include a jail term of up to 10 years for individuals or a fine of up to $735,000 (S$1 million) for companies.Tan, who does not live in Singapore and says he is an Australian citizen, is the second person to receive an order. Earlier this week, Brad Bowyer, a member of political opposition group Progress Singapore Party, edited a post critical of the city-states sovereign wealth funds.Singapores government claims the law is needed to tackle misinformation and disinformation circulating on social media, but critics warn that the law could be used to silence opponents of the PAP, which has ruled Singapore since 1959.Key background: Facebook has come under fire in recent years over how it polices the content shared by users of the social network. Human rights watchdogs have slammed the tech giant for bending to demands from repressive regimes in Vietnam and Chechnya, while its failure to address bogus content, misleading political advertisements and state-backed disinformation operations have fueled talk of regulation. Many governments in South East Asia, and around the world, will be watching how Facebook responds to Singapores demand. Additional fact: Singapore is ranked 151 out of 180 on the World Press Freedom index measured by Reporters Without Borders. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Isabel Togoh I am a breaking news reporter for Forbes in London, covering Europe and the U.S. Previously I was a news reporter for HuffPost UK, the Press Association and a night rep... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

