Xiaomi, Huawei, Oppo, And Vivo Pushed Samsung Out Of The Chinese MarketIs Apple Next? performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Panos Mourdoukoutas Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin SHANGHAI, CHINA - 2019/09/20: Customers look at the Apple's new iPhone 11 series smartphones at an ... [+] Apple retail store on East Nanjing Road in Shanghai. Apple launched sales of its latest iPhone 11 series in China. (Photo by Alex Tai/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty ImagesChinese smartphone makers Huawei, Oppo, Vivo, and Xiaomihavepushed Samsung out of the worlds largest smartphone market, and Apple may be next.Thats according to recent Staistista.com data, which shows that the market shares of the Chinese smartphonemakershave increased dramatically since 2014,whilethe shares of both Samsungs and Apples dropped precipitously. Samsungs market share dropped from 12.8% in 2014 to less than one-percent by 2018, while Apples share dropped from 10.1% to 7.4%see Table.Meanwhile, Huaweis, Oppos, and Vivos market shares almost tripled over the same periodcollectively holding closeto67% of the Chinese smartphone marketAnd theres Xiaomi with a steady market share of roughly 13%.What can explain Samsungs big decline in the Chinese market? The polarization of the market. The rise of two market segments, that is. A high-end market for expensive smartphones cateringto the countrys emerging upper class, and a low-end market for the rest.Apparently, Samsungs products catered to the middle, failing to address either market. Thats why the Korean giant is relocating its manifesting facilities to Southeast Asia, where its already facing competition by Chinese smartphone makers.What about Apple? Is it next?Jesse Cohen, analyst at financial markets platformInvesting.com, doesnt think so.koyfin_20191019_095308233Koyfinkoyfin_20191019_095531852KoyfinApples China problems tend to be exaggerated, he says.Despite the saturated smartphone market, Chinese consumers have shown a habit of preferring either expensive, high-performance phones, like the iPhone, or the cheapest options available, like those offered by Oppo and Vivo.Meanwhile, Apple continues to innovate, coming up with new products that address the high-end market. Unlike Samsung, Apple is on the verge of reviving its flagging smartphone business led by the massive demand for the iPhone 11. Its wearables business will also provide a spark as the Apple Watch and Airpods continue to gain traction with Chinas booming class of tech-savvy consumers.So far, that is. But things may change in the future, as the Chinese smartphone market matures, and domestic smartphone makers comeup with new models that address the highend.Meanwhile, trade and cultural classes between China and the US may make it increasingly difficult for Apple to compete on a level field against its Chinese counterparts.Gallery: The World's 10 Most Reputable Countries 201911 imagesView gallery Follow me on Twitter. Panos Mourdoukoutas Im Professor and Chair of the Department of Economics at LIU Post in New York. I also teach at Columbia University. Ive published several articles in professional jour... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

