Uber Received Nearly 6,000 Reports Of Sexual Assault In Two Years [Infographic] performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Niall McCarthy Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Business Data journalist covering technological, societal and media topics Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Uber released its highly-anticipated safety report on Thursday, revealing that it received close to 6,000 reports of sexual assault in the United States in 2017 and 2018. The ride-sharing company reported five different categories of sexual assault from non-consensual kissing to rape. Regarding rape, Uber received 229 reports in 2017 and 235 reports in 2018. A total of 5,981 sexual assault incidents occurred across both years out of 2.3 billion U.S. trips and Uber said that 99.9% of its rides were concluded without incident. Even though the number of cases grew from 2,936 in 2017 to 3,045 in 2018, the rate of incidents actually declined 16% due to the higher number of journeys.The report included data on accused parties involved in sexual assaults, 45% of which were riders and 54% of which were drivers. When it comes to incidents by reporting party, 56% were riders while 42% were drivers. The company has been under scrutiny for its safety practices in recent years and it has moved to implement numerous security features to help prevent situations like those mentioned in the report. For example, it added an in-app 911 calling feature in May 2018 and later another called Ride Check which will activate if the driver's GPS sensor detects an unusually long or unexpected stop during the journey. The report marks Uber's first in-depth review of the safety of its ride-sharing business and it's significant as it highlights safety levels in a thriving part of America's gig economy. The company said it will continue to release the report every two years. *Click below to enlarge (charted byStatista)Reported incidents of sexual assault received by Uber in the U.S. Statista Follow me on Twitter. Niall McCarthy I am a Statista data journalist, covering technological, societal and media topics through visual representation. In fact, I love to write about all trending topics, ill... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

