Ubers Disappointing Quarter Sets The Stage For A Sell-off Ahead Of Wednesdays IPO Lock-up Expiration performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Jim Collins Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Its tempting to include a pun in the lede of an article about Uber Technologies, Inc., but running late/breaking down/getting stuck in traffic, etc. would not adequately describe the value destruction at this company since its IPO on May 9th. Uber shares are falling in after-hours trading after reporting third quarter results that were a mishmash, but the cash outflow certainly hasnt stopped. Ubers adjusted EBITDA was negative by $585 million in the third quarter, and operating cash flow (cash flow from operations minus capital expenditures) was negative $1.007 billion in the quarter, bringing the year-to-date total for that figure to an almost incomprehensible negative $2.928 billion.So, investors who bought at Ubers IPO price have seen more than a 33% decline in value since May 10th, the first day of public trading for Uber shares, but the pain lies even more deeply for some of Ubers longer-term backers. Ubers market capitalization, based on after-hours pricing, has fallen just under $50 billion. That it was $78.2 billion on May 9th is easy to figure, but the bigger issue for Uber holders is the pre-money valuation accorded this company.Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi addresses a press conference in New Delhi, India, on October 22, 2019. ... [+] (Photo by Indraneel Chowdhury/NurPhoto via Getty Images)NurPhoto via Getty ImagesIn June 2016, Uber raised $5 billion in a round led by Saudis PIF at a valuation of $68 billion. Further, Uber raised $1 billion in July 2015 from investorsreportedly including Microsoftat a valuation of $51 billion. So the stock market is telling us that this company is worth less today than several of the worlds largest investors were willing to pay for it more than four years ago.Those losses are difficult to endure, and that brings the question of whether those holders will, in fact, hold. How long would a pre-IPO Uber shareholder have to wait to sell if disgusted by the huge cash outflow shown in the companys third quarter report?One day.Yes, Ubers IPO lockup period ends tomorrow, November 6th. The expiration of that 180-day period couldnt possibly have come at a worse time for Uber insiders. According to the companys S-1 IPO filing with the SEC, fully 97% of the 1.685 billion shares outstanding at the time of the IPO will be eligible for sale as of Wednesday.Obviously not all of that will hit the market in one day, but at Ubers 10-day average volume of 10.3 million shares traded, it would take 163 trading days to absorb that overhang in full. Thats a mind-boggling potential supply, but the actual demand will determine at what price those shares change hands.So, while cool heads will likely prevail at long-time holders like Japanese tech giant SoftBank, that companys actions will be key to Uber's future. SoftBank won a tender for 15% of Uber in December 2017 at a valuation of $48 billion. At this point that is not looking like a great investment, but, obviously, Masayoshi Son and co. would never dump ~250 million shares on the open market.Thats where the little guy, for once, has an advantage. My firm, Excelsior Capital Partners, has put options that will profit from the decline in Uber shares that is indicated by its after-hours trading levels. Son-san at SoftBank has a balance sheet that is magnitudes greater than my firms, but the real issue is those holders who lie between him and me and control over $40 billion worth of Uber stock. Will they resist the pressure to dump Uber shares on the first day they are able to do so? My guess is no, and the market will learn Wednesday just how deeply the holders of those locked-up shares want to sell.This year has produced the IPO of some of the most overvalued, fundamentally-flawed tech companies I have seen hit the market since 2000. Shares of both Beyond Meat and Pinterest cratered last week after the combination of mediocre earnings and lockup expirations. I believe Uber will do the same, and I am not selling those put options just yet. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. Jim Collins I have researched stocks for 27 years, starting fresh out of college at Lehman Brothers and then moving to Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette. At DLJ I was a Senior Analyst ... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

