Facebook Wont Monitor Political Speech: So Whats The Truth Here? performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Howard Homonoff Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Media Insights on media disruption, business models and growth strategies Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin WASHINGTON, DC - OCTOBER 23: Facebook co-founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies before the House ... [+] Financial Services Committee in the Rayburn House Office Building on Capitol Hill October 23, 2019 in Washington, DC. Zuckerberg testified about Facebook's proposed cryptocurrency Libra, how his company will handle false and misleading information by political leaders during the 2020 campaign and how it handles its users data and privacy. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)Getty ImagesWere often told You cant have it both ways. But with Mark Zuckerbergs recent announcement that Facebook will permit posting of even obviously false political ads, the company seems to want to have it more than both ways: to be the predominant social network in the world AND a major hub of political advertising AND a brand safe environment for all advertisers AND (at least in perception) a good corporate citizen led by a global statesman. Even for a dexterous digital giant, it seems like a precarious high-wire act with no net. The statesman aspiration seems the highest mountain to climb for Mark Zuckerberg, but it doesnt mean he isnt trying. Zuckerberg chose Georgetown University as the forum for his announcement, relying on a prestigious Washington, D.C. site often used for delivery of ground-breaking policy statements. Zuckerberg positioned himself as standing at the constitutional vanguard as a protector of free expression. Drawing upon Supreme Court history, global dictatorships, Martin Luther King, Jr. and Black Lives Matter among other social movements, Zuckerberg sought to place Facebook as a similar guardian of freedom and progress in defending its decision not to police political advertising, even when it is demonstrably false. But the heroic figures Zuckerberg cited at Georgetown didnt hide behind the first amendment in avoiding responsibility. The point for Dr. King was hardly to just speak out for the sake of speaking it was to change the world for the better and he was more than willing to suffer the consequences that his non-violent protests might entail, as Zuckerberg would seem to note in his reference to Kings iconic letter from Birmingham Jail. By comparison, Facebooks willful neutrality on even overtly and purposefully false and misleading political messaging is an abandonment of societal responsibility and not its embrace. Yes, the constitution dictates that Congress shall make no lawabridging the freedom of speech, or of the press. But abiding by and honoring the first amendment doesnt remove the need for thoughtful choices on speech from private citizens and corporations it demands it. Facebook is walking away from the greatest right under the first amendment to exercise editorial judgment. Instead, the Zuckerberg hands off approach would make that a mockery. The New York Times prints what in its view is All the news thats fit to print. It doesnt print all the news and it doesnt force readers to read material it thinks is not fit just because someone told them to or is paying them for it (as in advertising). Facebook just announced Facebook News, led by former NBC and CNN journalist Campbell Brown, who has headed Facebooks news partnerships for several years. Facebook wants to be a publisher when it suits it, and to act as a content-neutral tech platform when it suits it. I dont buy it. There are times political speech gets legal protection from any such editorial decision-making, which was a point made to me by Jack Goodman, the longtime General Counsel for the National Association of Broadcasters. For example, under federal communications law, since 1927, broadcasters and by extension local cable operators are barred from rejecting any ads by federal officials running for office (and paid for by their official committees) based on their content. But Goodman notes that even this prohibition doesnt extend to ads from political action committees and the myriad issue-oriented groups that buy ads throughout the media universe. Of course, this limited restriction on editorial judgment is just one part of an extensive web of regulations that federal, state and local governments have created surrounding the legacy broadcast and cable businesses. These regulations have been justified by the historic scarcity of broadcast spectrum, and near-monopoly status of cable operators as local broadband providers. By comparison, Facebook has grown up in a regulatory desert with none of the privacy obligations faced by cable operators. And Facebook and many other internet publishers benefit from Section 230 of the Communications Act granting immunity from actions such as those of aggrieved political figures for works posted on their platform by third parties, which in Facebooks case is almost everyone. If anything, Facebook will do whatever is possible to avoid greater regulatory strictures from government at any level. They are hardly a company that embraces legal public interest obligations. Goodman has counseled innumerable broadcasters on how to manage decisions about how to handle sensitive content in political (but not candidate) ads. Its not easy to make these calls sometimes, and he acknowledges the extraordinary complexity for Facebook. But he says the worst excuse from his clients for taking an objectionable ad is: Well everybody else is running it. But when you know there is a demonstrable lie - and weve seen plenty of them why do you want that on your platform? As Goodman said to me, youve got to ask yourself: Who do you want to be? If somebody wants to lie, and you care about your own publishing environment, let them do it somewhere else.Twitters CEO Jack Dorsey just announced a dramatically different approach rejecting all political ads. Twitter still has plenty of its own complicated decisions what to do when the flood of lies is coming from the Twitter account of the President? Whether or not you think Dorseys is the right answer on political ads, he is taking responsibility for exercising editorial judgment exactly the opposite of Zuckerbergs approach. Beyond the political realm, Facebook has faced years of marketer frustration with seemingly little recourse for advertisers fearful of being placed adjacent to offensive and even violent content. Why should Facebook be less concerned when a legitimate advertiser will sit adjacent to outright lies? What does that do to public trust of the advertiser in that environment? Yes, Facebook is seen as a must buy but will that always be true? Can Facebook keep taking money from anywhere in the political realm regardless of truth with no cost to its position as a home to marquee brands from Coca-Cola to GM? Talk about having it both ways. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. Howard Homonoff Howard Homonoff is a an expert in driving growth in traditional and digital media companies. Howard has worked with global clients such as Comcast/NBCU, Fox Cable Networ... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

