AT&T Reportedly Holding Talks With Activist Investor Elliott Management performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Jonathan Berr Senior Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Media I cover media companies, networks, podcasters and online streaming Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin AT&T Chairman and CEO Randall Stephenson speaks at a news conference in Time Warner headquarters ... [+] (Photo by Amir Levy/Getty Images).Getty ImagesAT&T is in talks with Elliott Management, which recently took a $3.2 billion stake in the telecom/media giant to press for an overhaul of its business, according to theWall Street Journal.According to the newspaper, the two sides have held "wide-ranging" talks over the past few weeks. If the negotiations don't fall apart, a deal could be reached in about a month, people familiar with the deal told The Journal. Dallas-based AT&T has pushed back its earnings report, initially scheduled for next week, to October 28 to give the two parties a chance to reach an agreement, The Journal says.AT&T Chief Executive Randall Stephenson can't blow Elliott off without risking a nasty, time-consuming, and expensive proxy contest. Though Elliott Isn't big enough to take on a $280 billion company like AT&T on its own, it would have no difficulty finding allies. Shares of AT&T barely budged on the news, indicating that investors are skeptical that the talks will amount to much.Elliott has struck a cordial tone as it seeks support for its plan to boost AT&T's share price to $60, nearly 60 percent above its current price. However, its disdain for the company's media businesses is loud and clearIn its September 9 letter to AT&T, the hedge fund noted that AT&T's $67 billion acquisition of DirecTV in 2015 "came at the absolutepeak of the linear TV market." Elliott didn't call on AT&T to sell DirecTV though the fund suggested that it conduct a review of businesses that might not fit with its future directuinAs for its $109 billion purchase of Time Warner that closed last year, Elliott argued: "we should be seeing some manifestations of the clear strategic benefits by now." Most of the senior management at Time Warner, now called WarnerMedia, left after the acquisition closed.AT&T has defended its AT&T's media strategy and its recent appointment of WarnerMedia head John Stankey as the company's President and Chief Operating Officer. Stankey has claimed that DirecTV, which has bled subscribers for years, is an integral part of HBO Max, the company's streaming service due to launch next year. Elliott isn't so sure about whether Stankey should be he heir-apparent to CEO Stephenson.Look at Comcast, Charter Communications, Altice, and Cox, writes Jeff Kagan, an independent telecommunications analyst, in an email. They are not leaving the pay-TV space. They are however expanding their business.Years ago, their primary service was cable TV. Today, their primary service is high-speed Internet.A spokesperson for AT&T declined to comment for this story. Elliott didn't immediately respond to a message left through its website. Follow me on Twitter. Check out my website. Jonathan Berr I have covered the media industry for major news organizations such as CBS News and Bloomberg News on and off since around 2000. My specialties include debunking conven... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

