Facebook Promises It Has Fixed Glitch That Caused Political Ads To Disappear Days Ahead Of U.K. Election performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Isabel Togoh Forbes Staff Retail I cover breaking news. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Prime Minister Boris Johnson's Tories have drawn criticism during the campaign over several online ... [+] stunts, including briefly rebranding one of their Twitter pages to appear as a fact-checking organization.AFP via Getty ImagesTopline: Facebook says it has fixed a bug that caused thousands of political ads to go missing from its public archive searches just two days before the U.K. general election, a glitch that temporarily hindered analysts and users efforts to track who is spending what on the advertisements.Ads from Prime minister Boris Johnsons Conservative party, the Liberal Democrats and Brexit Party vanished from the search tool, which was launched in the U.K. in October 2018 to allow members of the public to view the source and spend of political advertising on Facebook and Instagram.It meant that political ads could only be found by searching if the user typed in a 15-digit I.D. number, according to Reuters.In a statement, Facebook said it had fixed the bug and that all of the impacted ads in the U.K. are now back in the ads library.It is not clear how many political ads were hit in the U.S., which also suffered from the bug, as did a number of other countries.According to CNN, fixing the U.K. database was a priority as the nation heads to the polls in less than 24 hours. This election has been described by the leaders of Britains major political parties as the biggest in a generation. But the final days of campaigning have been marred by worries about the spread of misinformation.Tangent: Concerns came to a head after The Mirror published on its front page a story of a four-year-old boy being treated on the floor of a hospital. The picture tipped the focus towards the parties plans for securing funding for the NHS. But it also spun unfounded conspiracies about the origins of the story. Those conspiracies, including a Facebook post that turned out to be fabricated, were dispelled.Meanwhile, Johnsons Conservatives have been heavily criticised for rebranding their Twitter account as a fact-checking tool against Labour during a televised debate. A study by fact-checking organization First Draft found that 88% of ads paid for by the Conservatives contained misleading claims.Key background: The platform was launched in October 2018 to track how much parties were spending on ads, who was spending the money and who those parties are targeting. It was a key strategy by the social media giant in its efforts to be more transparent, after U.S. intelligence agencies found that Russia targeted American users with ads in a bid to influence the 2016 poll, findings that Russia denies. Facebook has come in for criticism over its stance on fact-checking political ads, after founder Mark Zuckerberg claimed that it would hinder free speech.Twitter altogether banned political advertising in November, while Facebook has reportedly been planning to cut down on microtargeted political ads that target narrow numbers of users, a tactic that has been used by certain groups to push false ads and misinformation.Further reading: Facebook Hints At Plans To Restrict Controversial Microtargeted Political AdsReportTories Slammed For Fact-Check Stunt, But Was That Part Of The Plan? (Alasdair Lane) Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Isabel Togoh I am a breaking news reporter for Forbes in London, covering Europe and the U.S. Previously I was a news reporter for HuffPost UK, the Press Association and a night rep... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

