First Look: Uber Unveils New Design For Uber Eats Delivery Drone performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Biz Carson Forbes Staff Consumer Tech Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Uber unveiled a new delivery drone design, featuring six rotors that can rotate. UberThe next battle in delivery is being fought in the sky. On Monday, Eric Allison, head of Uber Elevate, revealed a new Uber Eats delivery drone design onstage at Forbes Under 30 Summit in Detroit. The company plans to use this design when it starts testing meal delivery in San Diego next summer.The new drone design can carry dinner for up two people and features six rotors, the company says. Its ideal trip time is eight minutes, including loading and unloading, and it can only do relatively short hauls. The drone can do up to an 18 mile trip made up of three six-mile legs: up to 6 miles to the restaurant, up to 6 miles from the restaurant to the customer and up to 6 miles back to its launch area. Ubers plan is to fly meals from restaurants to a staging location where an Uber driver would then travel the last mile for the hand-off to the customer. It has also considered landing drones on the roofs of delivery cars, the company said in June when it unveiled its drone testing plans. At the time, Uber Eats had made a few test deliveries from a McDonalds near San Diego State University. Eric Allison, head of Uber Elevate, speaks at the Forbes Under 30 Summit.Doug Coombe/ForbesIts a limited use case to start, but Uber Eats isnt the only one trying to crack drone delivery. UPS received approval in early October to start testing drone delivery, but it will focus first on creating a network for hospitals. Amazon is also developing its own drones and said in June that it would begin deliveries within months. Googles Project Wing is testing deliveries in Australia, Finland and Christiansburg, Virginia. While the FAA is beginning to allow tests, there are still a lot of obstacles before drone delivery really takes flight. They will have to deal with weather problems and making sure they can identify other objects in the sky, from birds to wires and even other drones. Despite the obstacles, companies are continuing to invest in drone networks. For Uber, its part of a larger Elevate division, which is working on new air transportation networks, from helicopters to electric VTOL (vertical takeoff and landing) planes. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Biz Carson Im a San Francisco-based staff writer for Forbes with a focus on Uber, the sharing economy, and startups. I previously worked for Business Insider, Gigaom, and Wired. I... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

