Migos Partners Up With Popeyes To Launch Migos Menu Through Uber Eats performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Lauren Alvarez Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Hollywood & Entertainment Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin BROOKLYN, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 10: Migos pose backstage for Savage X Fenty Show Presented By Amazon ... [+] Prime Video - Backstage at Barclays Center on September 10, 2019 in Brooklyn, New York. (Photo by Ilya S. Savenok/Getty Images for Savage X Fenty Show Presented by Amazon Prime Video )Getty Images for Savage X Fenty Show Presented by Amazon Prime VideoMigos food palette just got a little more Bad and Boujee. The hip-hop trio is partnering up with Uber Eats and Popeyes to launch their very own Migos Menu. Each member of the group Quavo, Offset and Takeoff has curated a special order of their personal favorites for the menu. And yes, the in-demand chicken sandwich is one of the available dishes. Rapping about Popeyes in their single Stir Fry, the Atlanta act has shown love for the food chain numerous times. Quavo even attempted selling Popeye chicken sandwiches for $1,000 a pop on Instagram when the Internet set ablaze over the chicken sandwiches this past summer.I heard yall boys was looking for them, they sold out everywhere, he said in the social media clip. I got them things going for $1,000 a chicken."The famous Popeyes chicken sandwich first went viral when the company released the offering in August. While it took a few months to restock restaurants across the nation, the popular food item finally returned in the beginning of November.Migos x Popeyes x Uber EatsCourtesy of Uber EatsMigos Popeyes menu will feature four different options, and will be delivered exclusively through Uber Eats. Delivery is available from December 6 to January 2.Migos Popeyes Menu: Tour Rider starts at $46.99, and includes the following: 20 tenders, 7 sauces, 1 large mashed potatoes with gravy, 2 large fries, 5 biscuits, 1 gallon lemonade The Offset is set at $21.99, and includes the following: 8 pieces BIC chicken meal, 1 large fries, 1 large mashed potatoes with gravy, 4 biscuits The Quavo is set at $17.99, and includes the following: 2 chicken sandwiches, 2 regular fries, 1 regular mashed potatoes with gravy, 2 apple pies, 2 small drinks The Takeoff is set at $9.99, and includes the following: 5 tenders, 2 sauces, 1 regular mashed potatoes, 2 biscuits, 1 apple pieThey first rose to fame with their debut single Versace in 2013. Migos went on to make waves with subsequent projects and eventually signed with Motown and Capitol Records in 2017.Migos has garnered two No. 1 albums on the Billboard 200 albums chart with Culture, released in 2017, and Culture II, released in 2018. Their records also hit No. 1 on Billboards Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. Theyve only topped the Billboard Hot 100 with their single Bad and Boujee, but they have scored four top 10 hits (MotorSport featuring Cardi B and Nicki Minaj, Stir Fry, Walk It Talk It featuring Drake and Bad and Boujee featuring Lil Uzi Vert) on the same listing chart.Each member of the trio has released a solo project over the last year, and the group is set to reunite for the release of Culture III for 2020. Follow me on Twitter. Lauren Alvarez I am a writer, music critic, and digital producer born and raised in Los Angeles. My extensive work in music, entertainment, and pop culture has appeared in Billboard an... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

