Are Cloud CRM Offerings 50%, 70% or 90% of Salesforce.coms Stock? performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Trefis Team Contributor Great Speculations Contributor Group Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin KIEV, UKRAINE - 2018/12/25: In this photo illustration, the Salesforce.com Software company logo ... [+] seen displayed on a smartphone. (Photo Illustration by Igor Golovniov/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)LightRocket via Getty ImagesSalesforce.com (NYSE: CRM) makes money through the sale of software for customer relationship management, and competes with Adobe, Oracle, Intuit, and SAP, among others. Trefis highlights the various segments that constitute Salesforce.coms Revenues in an interactive dashboard along with our forecast for the next couple of years. We conclude that nearly 70% of the companys revenues come from its cloud-based CRM offerings.Notably, Salesforce.com is one of the most well-known cloud CRM companies, and has grown considerably over the years through several targeted acquisitions. While this has driven revenue growth, we believe that the risk in the company has also expanded significantly.A Quick Look At Salesforce.com RevenuesSalesforce.coms has 3 Operating Segments:Cloud-Based CRM Software Division: Revenues are derived from the sale of Sales Cloud (sales leads to invoice lifecycle management), Service Cloud (personalized customer service and support) and Marketing and Commerce Cloud (campaign to consumption management).Cloud Software Division: Revenues are derived from the sale of Salesforce Platform which includes Platform-as-a-Service tools, MuleSoft Anypoint Platform, Quip Collaboration Platform among others.Consulting & Services Division: Revenues are derived from the sale of technical assistance towards deployment and maintenance of systems.Salesforce.coms Revenue grew 58.3% over 2017 to 2019 to $13 billion and is expected to increase 42% to nearly $19 billion by 2021.(1) Cloud-Based CRM Software Division revenue growth of $3 billion over the next two years is likely to be driven by the increased demand for cross platform offerings to enable last mile (IoT) driven consumption.(2) Cloud Software Division revenue growth of $2 billion over the next two years is likely to be driven by growing requirements of collaboration and integration among systems and people.(3) Consulting & Services Division revenue growth of $0.3 billion over the next two years is likely to be driven by growth in the companys overall software business.Actual revenues for each of these segments over the last 3 years along with our forecast for the next 2 are available in our interactive dashboard.TrefisWhats behind Trefis? See How Its Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs ForCFOs and Finance Teams|Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Exploreexample interactive dashboardsand create your own Trefis Team Led by MIT engineers and Wall Street analysts, Trefis (through its dashboards platform dashboards.trefis.com) helps you understand how a company's products, that you tou... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

