Uber Is Testing Selling Cooking Classes, Dining Experiences Through Uber Eats performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Biz Carson Forbes Staff Consumer Tech Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin In a limited trial, Uber is letting people book cooking classes through Uber Eats.BLOOMBERG NEWSUber is researching a new way to get food through Uber Eats, but its not delivery. On Friday, Uber launched a new experiment called Uber Moments, which lets customers book culinary classes such as ravioli making or a five-course dinner directly through the app. In an email sent to San Francisco customers, Uber said customers could book Uber Moments for the next month, scheduled until November 17. The Moments Uber offered include the option to book a $75 class on making Chinese dumplings and a $55 five-course Nigerian dinner. Were always thinking about new ways to enhance the Eats experience, an Uber spokesperson said when asked about the pilot.The one-month, one-city trial is very limited for the global ride-sharing giant, but could signal a new revenue source for Uber and a new front for competition. For example, home-sharing startup Airbnb has spent the last three years building out its own Experiences platform to let people book everything from surfing to behind-the-scenes museum tours. It already counts over 1,000 cities on the platform, with more than 40,000 experiences available. Other online travel agents, like Tripadvisor-owned Viator, also offer cooking classes and tours. So far, the Uber Moments trial seems to be limited only to food. Uber is testing a new way to book cooking classes through the app. It's a limited trial, as ... [+] evidenced by step three when one of the instructions is to "ignore the white screen."UberThe test of Uber Moments is part of the companys desire to become more than just a ride-hailing app. In September, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi announced that the company would be combining Eats and rides (alongside any other future products) into the main Uber app: What we want to be as a company is the operating system for your daily life. At the time, the company teased products like grocery delivery, but with Uber Moments, local experiences and special events could be in development, too. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Biz Carson Im a San Francisco-based staff writer for Forbes with a focus on Uber, the sharing economy, and startups. I previously worked for Business Insider, Gigaom, and Wired. I... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

