Apple TV App Comes to Amazon Fire Devices - But Theres A Catch performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); John Archer Senior Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Consumer Tech Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin [UPDATE: Since first publishing this article, the Apple TV app has become available on the Amazon Fire TV Cube. I have thus amended the story below accordingly.] In the ultimate sign of how the once pretty icy relationship between Apple and Amazon has thawed, its been announced today that the Apple TV app is being made available from today on a wide range of Amazon Fire TV devices.This is no limited roll out of the Apple TV app, either; its going to appear on multiple Fire TV devices in more than 60 countries around the world. Specifically its available from today to owners of Fire TV Stick 2nd Gen and Fire TV Stick 4K devices in the US, Canada, the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and India, as well as owners of Fire TV Basic Edition customers in more than 50 other countries including Australia, Austria, New Zealand, Brail, Ireland and Mexico.The Apple App has come to Fire TV Cube devices since I first published this story, too, and is expected soon on the third-gen (pendant design) Fire TV; the Toshiba and Insignia Fire TV Edition smart TVs; and the Nebula soundbar.The only Fire TV devices that are not compatible with the Apple TV app are the first and second generation Fire TVs, and the first-generation Fire TV Stick.Apple TV App is now available on many Fire TV devices in more than 60 countries.Photo: Apple TV on Fire TV (Amazon)Apple has, of course, got a very vested interest these days in spreading its Apple TV app love, with the Apple TV+ service (which can be watched through the Apple TV app) set to launch in just a weeks time. But its still good to see the Fire TV/Apple TV App connection now formally up and running.Naturally the Apple TV app will provide access to all of the Apple iTunes library of films and TV shows. However, while the app supports 4K and HDR10, it will not currently support Dolby Vision HDR or Dolby Atmos sound, even on Fire TV devices such as the Fire Stick 4K that can support both Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos from other apps. Amazon tells me that its working with Apple to add additional support for this type of content in the future.To get the Apple TV app on your Fire TV, just search for Apple TV using text input or an Alexa Voice Remote/paired Echo device, and add the app to your collection.The arrival of the Apple TV app on Amazon Fire devices raises more questions on the future of Apples own Apple TV hardware. Could it be that the lack of support for Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos on the Fire TV Apple TV app is a deliberate move to give people a reason to still by Apple TV 4K hardware? Will we get some really high-performance new Apple TV box - maybe with more advanced gaming capabilities? Or will Apple eventually pull the Apple TV hardware plug altogether? Keep an eye on my Forbes channel for future updates.If you found this story interesting, you might also like these:Apple TV App Arrives On RokuApple TV+ Has An Image ProblemAmazon Fire TV Stick 4K Review: A Great Way To Make Dumb TVs SmartApple TV 4K Review: 13 Reasons You Should Buy OneApple TV 4K Review: 13 Reasons You Shouldnt Buy One Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. John Archer I've spent the past 25 years writing about the world of home entertainment technology--first at Home Cinema Choice magazine, where I became Deputy Editor, and for the pa... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

