Is It Time For Facebook To Swipe Right On Match Group? performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Trefis Team Contributor Great Speculations Contributor Group Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin The Facebook logo is seen on an Apple iPhone on October 1, 2018. (Photo by Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto via ... [+] Getty Images)NurPhoto via Getty ImagesFacebooks history of user privacy issues indicate that the company would do better in the dating segment through an acquisition (in this case that of the Match Group) instead of building its own dating feature/app. Trefis details why Facebook could potentially acquire Match Group as well as how much the social media giant can pay to acquire the company that owns Tinder, OkCupid and PlentyOfFish, among other popular dating apps. Our estimate is based on Match Groups standalone value as well as its value as a part of the combined entity with Facebook. You can modify any of the key drivers to visualize the impact of changes on the potential acquisition price. Additionally, you can see more Trefis technology company data here.Why A Facebook Match Group Deal Could Be On The CardsFacebook has been keen on the online dating spaceIn 2018, Facebook announced that it was about to launch its dating feature.Facebooks announcement led to a decline in stock Match Group. Tinder is the leading dating app globally in terms of number of users, and accounts for a majority of Match Groups users by a significant margin.Despite the huge growth potential, Facebook will face growth hurdles in the segmentAlthough dating is potentially a $12 billion market (Facebooks revenues are in excess of $50 billion), the engagement potential that romantic conversations bring about can be very valuable for Facebooks platform.Facebook has the benefit of a massive user base, and even a small percentage of its users adopting a new dating feature could catapult it to the lead position in this segmentHowever, the perception of Facebooks treatment of user privacy will act as a major deterrent for potential usersIn the backdrop of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Facebook has come under fire for letting third parties misuse user information.Facebook is no stranger to growing by acquisition, and Match Group looks like a great fitGiven Facebooks positioning as a marketing platform, it was no surprise that the company paid top dollar for WhatsApp in 2014 despite having its own messenger platform.We think Tinder represents an asset similar in quality and potential to WhatsApp in 2014.Match Groups average revenue per user and enterprise value per user (as suggested by the market cap) are an order of magnitude greater than that of Facebook, further providing a compelling logic for the potential acquisition.A Quick Look at Key Operating Metrics For Match Group vs. FacebookAs of 2018, the following is how Match Groups Key Metrics compared with Facebook:User base: 7.9 million for Match Group vs 2.25 billion for FacebookAverage Revenue per Users: $220 for Match Group vs $24.8 for FacebookRevenues: $1.7 billion for Match Group vs $55.8 billion for FacebookAdj EBITDA: $654 million for Match Group vs $34 billion for FacebookEBITDA/user: $83 for Match Group vs $15 for FacebookValuations: Standalone and that of the combined entityFor Match Group, we expect EV to be 9.2x the 2020 revenues of $2.5 billion, or an EV/user figure of roughly $1,900. This translates into an implied enterprise value of $22.8 billion for the Match Group, and also represents an EV/EBITDA of 25.5x for the company.For Facebook, we expect EV to be 7.2x the 2020 revenues of $76.6 billion, which works out to an EV/user figure of roughly $220. This translates into an implied enterprise value of $551 billion for Facebook, and also represents an EV/EBITDA of 11.2x for the company.Based on our revenue and EBITDA forecasts for Match Group and Facebook, and our estimates for potential gains as a combined entity, we believe that there Facebook can profitably acquire Match Group for a figure that is more than 2x Match Groups implied enterprise value.TrefisDetails about our estimates and the potential acquisition value for Match Group are available in our interactive dashboard.Whats behind Trefis? See How Its Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs ForCFOs and Finance Teams|Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Exploreexample interactive dashboardsand create your own Trefis Team Led by MIT engineers and Wall Street analysts, Trefis (through its dashboards platform dashboards.trefis.com) helps you understand how a company's products, that you tou... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

