Misplaced Earnings Perceptions: Facebook, U.S. Steel, Even Exxon Mobil, Alibaba and Halliburton performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Martin Sosnoff Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Facebook CEO Mark ZuckerbergGetty ImagesLemme begin with Exxon Mobil because it typifies a big capitalization stock whose management spells pure corperatese. They guide the Street within a penny or two of quarterly results. For an international operator whose downstream profits are volatile in refining and chemicals output, this is no easy proposition.Exxon is a 5% yielder with a comfortable payout ratio that allows them to boast of sound annualized largess. Consider AT&T, also a 5% yielder, but with earnings changes measured in pennies. Exxon aint a negative surprise piece of paper, but still a terrible performer, down over 30% from its 12-month high. Blame stinko oil quotes, the world awash in oil. Life gets more exciting when you ladder down to U.S. Steel with a market capitalization just $2 billion, down from $5.4 billion a year ago. Gross profit stands halved, with minimal Ebitda and negative free cash flow. U.S. Steel lost 21 cents in its September quarter vs. the consensus of minus 29 cents. Lo and behold! The stock popped 15% overnight. Couldnt this be a darkest before dawn story?You can make a lot of money in excess of pessimism stocks, but I passed on U.S. Steel with formidable shut-in excess capacity, a worldwide condition, decade after decade. Management goes through all the motions of running a big business, but its cosmetic, governed by commodity prices, and now the imposed Trumpian tariff on steel. I just bought into Halliburton whose 12-month price range plummeted from $36 a share to $17, ticking now over 20 bucks. Leading indicator for Halliburto is oil futures, near their low, mid-fifties but, mid-seventies not so long ago. Halliburton ticked at $60 just two years ago. So much for excessive optimism. Theyll take your pants down, every time. Traders saw $100 oil coming. Present earnings rate for this well driller looks like $1.20 a share. Woof! Were buying into a prime oil service property at 16 times depressed earnings, a much cheaper valuation then Schlumberger, known at trading decks as Slob. The S&P 500 Index at 18 times earnings carries no leveraged numbers in a slow GDP setting. Not normally an operator in ragamuffins, locus of my animals rests in big capitalization growthies. They too, contain comparable issues on earnings and valuation. Consider five stocks: Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon and Alphabet comprise nearly 20% of the S&Ps valuation. Apple and Microsoft are trillion-dollar horses. Amazon, Alphabet and Facebook not so far behind.Throw in Alibaba, still outside the S&P 500, with phenomenal growth intact. Analysts badly under-pegged numbers for Facebook, Alibaba, even Microsoft, but waxed high on Amazon and Alphabet. For market operators, misses, as many as winners, doesnt do the job. Facebooks bad press makes it a controversial piece of paper. Is Zuck out of control? Regulators think so. Lets break em up with Instagram independent. Facebook is an easy-to-hate political hot potato. But start parsing Facebooks quarterly and a different, sober, picture emerges. This is a company bent on renewing itself. Take R&D spending, an enormous 20% of revenues. Apple underspent for years. Even Alphabet and Microsoft dont ever get over a 15% spend. Maybe Facebooks pissing away their money, maybe not. I see the pivotal valuation metric as operating income, the wherewithal management works with to grow their footprint. Here we see operating income growing at a 20% clip. On a market capitalization of $600 billion Facebook sells at a 20 multiple of next years earning power and at 15 times my projection of cash flow. This yield, over 6%, puts it in a select category. Sooner or later attention is paid. What about Facebook as a stock? Well, the old story is you gotta be early. Five years ago, Facebook ticked at $80, up now 150%. But, past two years its hardly ahead 10%. Net, net, Zucks controversiality is ever present, reflected in cautious valuation. His image can improve, not in the press, but on the Street. From present level Facebook can track earnings growth maybe, mid-teens. Alibaba, in another property shortchanged by the market. Alibaba is everything Amazon would like to become. ECommerce business brings plenty down to the bottom-line, funding ventures like cloud computing. I see Alibabas one-third interest in Ant Financials money management reach a few years out worth a couple of hundred billion. Why does the market turn up its nose at Alibabas breathtaking numbers? Latest quarter were talking revenues ahead 40% and Ebitda up 39%. All this reminds me of Polaroid and Xerox in their hay day, even Mr. Sams Walmart. Until early seventies, these properties were rated as one-decision stocks and sold anywhere from 40-60 times earnings, sometimes even more. Analysts told their clients to expect 2% monthly price appreciation. Is everyone now afraid of Chinas growth rate sloughing off? Maybe, but maybe theyre off base. A leading indicator of Alibabas growth rate is number of frequent users. (MAVs) still growing around 4%, reaching 785 million this past September. For core commerce, Alibabas growth rate in Ebitda is 29%. No big cap retailer, anywhere, carries such numbers in hand. Non-Gaap quarterly operating income grows at a 30% clip at 1.83 per share. Twelve months ahead, I see Alibaba at 20 times earnings. Costco sells over 30 times, Walmart at 24 times earnings. Operating cash flow at Alibaba runs at a $25 billion clip, a huge number for management to work with. This aint Macys struggling to survive Amazons onslaught. Oversimplified, my belief in Chinas soundness and Alibabas eCommerce footprint, youre below fair value. Five years ago, Alibaba traded at $120 and has backed and filled between $200 and $130 past couple of years. Maybe it carries an inscrutable stigma, but it gets my money. Sooner or later, the footprint matters. Amazon is an enigma, not Alibaba.Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own: Alibaba, Facebook, Alphabet, Halliburton and Microsoft.msosnoff@gmail.com Martin Sosnoff Ive been running a bunch of money almost as long as Warren Buffett, but Warrens made a bigger pile. I founded and was formerly CEO, CIO of Atalanta Sosnoff Capital, L... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

