How Apples Tim Cook Mastered Donald Trump performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Will Jeakle Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Leadership Strategy Author, entrepreneur, Stanford grad, former CNN exec, comedy writer. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin President Donald Trump tours an Apple manufacturing plant, Wednesday, Nov. 20, 2019, in Austin with ... [+] Apple CEO Tim Cook. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci)ASSOCIATED PRESSApple CEO Tim Cook has received some criticism recently about his reticence in the face of a slew of erroneous self-serving statements by President Donald Trump as they toured an Austin, Texas manufacturing plant which will be assembling Apples upcoming Mac Pro. Trump claimed that he was there to open the plant (a falsehood, the plant opened in 2013), as Cook stood by quietly, not correcting or refuting Trumps self-serving statements.Cook faced criticism not just from Democrats, who were understandably frustrated that a CEO who they see as one of their own seemed to be enabling their rival at a perilous time in American political life, but also from tech aficionados who prefer their leaders to be apolitical, or at least politically savvy enough that they refuse to be used as political props. There was genuine bafflement from the technorati attempting to understand Cooks motives. After all, Tim Cook is no Kid Rock.Apple's new Mac Pro. (Photo by Justin Sullivan)Getty ImagesAs an openly gay CEO and supporter of Dreamers, Cook might have some personal disdain for the policies of Trump, but as Apple CEO, Cook has found a way to thread the political needle and thrive under the quixotic leader. Apple saved $43 billion by having the ability to repatriate $238 billion under the 2017 tax bill championed by Trump and the Republicans. Apples stock has risen over 60% since Cooks January warning of faltering sales in China that caused the stock to plunge to a year low. Other tech stocks have done well since then, but few as well as Apple.For all of Trumps bluster and tariff talk, his actions have been selective, and his results have been mixed. Cook has diligently forged a special relationship with Trump that has largely allowed Apple to avoid the brunt of the tariffs, thus buoying Apples significant investment in China and calming the fears of investors who might otherwise worry about Apples future.Tim Cook and I are the same age. Like Cook, I grew up in Alabama in the 60s & 70s. Like Cook, I did well academically and sought my fortune on the west coast. This experience might give me some unique insight into why Cook seems to get along so well with such disparate personalities. In the first place, growing up different in the deep South (Cook is gay, I am Catholic) teaches you to internalize your core beliefs rather than project them for all to see. You learn to get along by going along, realizing that many of the people you deal with day to day have world views that you find at best intellectually unsophisticated, at worst reprehensible. But you learn to succeed in that environment.You learn that you can find like-minded people even amongst those with a different world view. You look for commonalities. You see the humanity in everyone. You learn to find solutions that will allow everyone, even those you dont agree with, to win a little, if it allows you and your greater cause to win, as well.FILE - In this June 11, 1963 file photo, Gov. George Wallace carries out his promise to stand in the ... [+] doorway to prevent integration at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Ala. At right, Nicholas Katzenbach, deputy attorney general of the United States, listens to Wallace. The wild Senate race between Republican Roy Moore and Democrat Doug Jones is only the latest odd political campaign in Alabama. Wallace won that race in 1962 and later promised "segregation forever" at his inaugural, ushering in a dark period of racial politics. (AP Photo, File)ASSOCIATED PRESSMy father was a Ford executive at an assembly plant in Sheffield, Alabama who once had to lobby Governor George Wallace for assistance to retrain workers who had been laid off from the plant during a recession. George Wallace was an inveterate racist who had blocked the school doors at the University of Alabama in 1963, famously proclaiming: segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever. Tim Cook grew up in that Alabama.But time and events have a way of mellowing even the most strident zealot. By the time my dad met with Wallace in 1985, he was serving his third stint as governor,and was confined to a wheelchair, having been shot in the 1972 presidential race. His anti-corporate and racist zeal had mellowed to a more pragmatic role. He disavowed many of his previous beliefs. And he actively supported the initiative to provide money to retrain the laid-off workers, many of whom were black.When you grow up in the South, you learn to deal with people who have views that woke Twitter would consider reprehensible. You work to find the common humanity. You do your best to set an example and show your fellow citizens why a more progressive way of going about something could benefit both of you. You internalize your strident beliefs. But you also see that there can be kindness and beauty even amongst what you might now consider backwardness. Youre now among the woke. But you learn to value those who are just waking.Tim Cooks southern roots have made him uniquely positioned to help bring a leader who many of Cooks peers and workers consider small-minded and narcissistic into a more inclusive way of thinking. Martin Luther King said the arc of history is long, but it bends toward justice. Cooks delicate efforts are designed to keep the bend from breaking, and to keep the profits and sales flowing to Apple and its shareholders. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. Will Jeakle I'm an author, entrepreneur, Stanford grad, former CNN exec, comedy writer, husband, and father. Follow me on Twitter @willjeakle Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

