Earnings Preview: What To Expect From Salesforce.com On Tuesday performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Adam Sarhan Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Enjoy investing in undervalued businesses and watching them grow. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin MANHATTAN, NEW YORK, UNITED STATES - 2019/10/11: Salesforce Headquarters in New York City, also ... [+] known as Salesforce Tower. (Photo by Erik McGregor/LightRocket via Getty Images)LightRocket via Getty ImagesSalesforce.com is scheduled to release earnings after Tuesdays close. The stock hit a record high of $167.56/share in 2019 and is currently trading near $160/share. The stock is prone to big moves after reporting earnings and can easily gap up if the numbers are strong. Conversely, if the numbers disappoint, the stock can easily gap down. To help you prepare, here is what the Street is expecting:Earnings Preview:Salesforce.com is expected to earn $0.66/share on $4.44 billion in revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called Whisper number is $0.69. The Whisper number is the Street's unofficial view on earnings.Company Profile & Various Businesses:Here is a brief company profile:Salesforce.com, Inc. is a provider of enterprise software, delivered through the cloud, with a focus on customer relationship management (CRM). The Company focuses on cloud, mobile, social, Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence technologies. The Company's service offerings are configured and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications. The Company delivers its service offerings via Internet browsers and on mobile devices. Its Customer Success Platform is a portfolio of service offerings providing sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, digital commerce, community management, analytics, application development, IoT integration, collaborative productivity tools and its professional cloud services. Its cloud service offerings include Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Commerce Cloud, Community Cloud, Analytics Cloud, Salesforce Quip and Salesforce Platform.Pay Attention To How The Stock Reacts To The News:From where I sit, the most important trait I look for during earnings season is how the market and a specific company reacts to the news. Remember, always keep your losses small and never argue with the tape. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. Adam Sarhan Investor & Host of The #SmartMoneyCircle Podcast: Visit: SmartMoneyCircle.com for more. New book on the way: Psychological Analysis For Markets. Forbes Contributor.... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

