Spain To Push Ahead With Google Tax Despite U.S. Tariffs Threat performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Ana Garcia Valdivia Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Leadership I write about the Spanish economic policy in the framework of EU Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin PARIS, FRANCE - MAY 31: In this photo illustration, logos of the Google, Apple, Facebook, and ... [+] Amazon applications (GAFA) are displayed on the screen of an Apple iPhone on May 31, 2018 in Paris, France. The acronym GAFA refers to the four most powerful companies in the world of the internet: Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon. The European Union has decided to better tax the giants of the internet with Brussels proposing to tax 3% of income generated by the data of users of Internet companies. This new tax would bring in 5 billion euros a year in the European Union. (Photo by Chesnot/Getty Images)Getty ImagesSpain will push ahead with a tax on digital giants if the Socialist Party (PSOE) and left-wing Unidas Podemos reach enough support to form a coalition government at the end of the month. The acting government, led by Pedro Snchez, intends to follow Frances footsteps in forcing digital giants to pay tax on the revenues made in the countrydespite the reprisal tariffs that it could trigger from the U.S. Last week President Donald Trumps administration threatened to introduce tariffs by 100% on French goods such as wine, cheese, beauty products, and handbags. The measure came in response to Paris' announcement of a 3% tax on large technology firms like Facebook and Google. But Washingtons warnings are not producing the desired effect. The European Commission has backed France, while Spain could be the next EU country to enforce the so-called Google Tax. Madrid has welcomed a proposal from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) aiming to addressing the tax challenge deriving from an increasingly digitalized economy. The OECD is promoting a unified tax so that tech giants contribute where they provide their services.Spanish Economy and Business acting minister Nadia Calvio highlighted the need to advance the debate on taxation of the digital economy within the EU and the OECD to establish similar taxes among different member states. But as global solutions move slowly, the lack of an international framework no longer seems to prevent Madrid from taking action. The Socialist Party aims to put the Google tax on the Spanish parliaments agenda as soon as there is a new government. We will have to act on a national level, Calvio said in a radio interview in October. The measure was included in the 2018 PSOEs manifesto and supported by Unidas Podemos during the general budget negotiations. Last January the Spanish cabinet of ministers approved a draft decree-law to create the Google tax and the Tobin tax in order to collect 1.2 billion ($1.33 billion) and 850 million ($940 million) to state coffers per year, respectively.However, the text bill died before being discussed in Congress when Snchez called elections in February after failing to pass the 2019 general budget, although the draft is likely to be used as a baseline for a new text. This would imply a 3% tax on tech giants with a global revenue higher than 750 million ($830 million) and over 3 million ($3.32 million) revenues in Spain . Tension between the U.S. and the EU member states are likely to escalate if Madrid goes ahead with its own Google tax. Spanish products will most likely suffer similar reprisals as French goods, in addition to the U.S. tariffs announced in relation to the Airbus trade dispute. EU support will be decisive in encouraging Spain to take the final step towards introducing the taxfor the time being, Madrid enjoys backing from Brussels.In 2018, the European Commission proposed a common reform of the EU's corporate tax rules for digital activities similar to the French and Spanish initiatives to address low taxation.The amount of profits currently going untaxed is unacceptable. We need to urgently bring our tax rules into the 21st century by putting in place a new comprehensive and future-proof solution," said the then-vice-president for the Euro and Social Dialogue Valdis Dombrovskis. According to the European Commission, digital companies have an average effective tax rate half that of the traditional economy in the EU. In this sense, the EU Executive has warned about the real risk to Member State public revenues if digital firms do not contribute their fair share of tax.Despite most EU member states supporting the proposal, a group of countries led by Ireland have voiced opposition. The fiscal rivalry between EU countries has so far blocked a Google tax at the EU level, but national regulations on digital companies are speeding up. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Ana Garcia Valdivia I'm a Spanish journalist graduated in law and politics, specialized in international journalism. Currently living in Brussels! Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

