Safety Board Cites Ubers Inadequate Policy As Factor In Arizona Fatality performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Greg Gardner Senior Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Transportation I have covered the auto industry since 1988 Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin An Uber Technologies Inc. Volvo self-driving sports utility vehicles (SUV) sits on the road after a ... [+] high-impact crash in Tempe, Arizona, U.S., on Friday, March 24, 2017. Uber Technologies Inc.'s self-driving cars were back on public roads Monday, three days after a crash in Arizona put the company's testing program on hold. Photographer: Mark Beach/Fresco News via Bloomberg 2017 Bloomberg Finance LPThe National Transportation Safety Board found Ubers lack of adequate safety policies contributed to the 2018 fatal crash in which an automated Volvo XC90 killed a woman in Tempe, Arizona.The agencys full 400-page report also cited the 44-year-old woman Uber employee who was sitting in the drivers seat, but failed to react, or take control, soon enough to avoid the fatal crash. She was streaming a television show on a device she brought into the car.In March 2019 Arizona prosecutors found Uber was not criminally liable in Herzbergs death.The report found the vehicle, which was equipped with Ubers automated driving system, did detect 49-year-old Elaine Herzberg about six seconds before hitting her while she attempted to jaywalk her bicycle on the night of March 18, 2018.Speaking Tuesday in Washington, D.C., NTSB Chairman Robert Sumwalt cited flaws in both Ubers automated system and the vehicles operator as reflections of Ubers inadequate safety culture at the time.Uber officials didnt respond immediately, but they previously said they have implemented changes to operate test vehicles more safely. The report also recognized some of those changes.The NTSB investigation is the first in-depth look at a fatal accident in the testing of autonomous vehicles. It is expected to have an impact on the practices of automakers, suppliers and technology companies that are investing billions of dollars on various elements of automated transportation. The safety agency found that while Ubers technology detected Herzberg 5.6 seconds before the fatal impact. It even classified her bicycle as a vehicle, but was unable to predict its path. At the time of the crash the Uber (system) lacked functionality to anticipate the possibility of pedestrians crossing a street outside a crosswalk, the report stated. The report blamed automation complacency, and stated that an alert operator would have had 2 to 4 seconds to react.Uber also deactivated an automated emergency braking system that Volvo engineered into the XC90 vehicle involved in the crash. After Herzbergs death Uber stopped testing self-driving vehicles completely until December 2018 and then, only on a 1-mile loop near the Pittsburgh headquarters of its automated technology group.The company also reduced the maximum speed of the test vehicles from 45 miles per hour to 25 mph. Another change was the installation of an inward facing camera to monitor the operators alertness. Uber has also stopped operators from disabling braking systems such as the one Volvo built into the vehicle that killed Herzberg.The NTSB, however, did cite several safety failures in Ubers practices at the time of the Arizona crash. For example, there was no corporate safety plan, no dedicated safety manager and inadequate enforcement of a policy that prohibited operators of self-driving cars from using cell phones while behind the wheel.Once Uber required two humans occupy an automated test vehicle, but before the accident that was reduced to just one operator per vehicle. The NTSB also found current federal standards related to self-driving car testing are inadequate. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has only cursory guidelines. Consequently, some states are stepping into that void.As of June 2019, 29 states have some type of automated driving policy or guidelines. The report pointed to Pennsylvania as a leader in setting safety rules.Even so, the report concluded that the technology has a long way to go before consumers will have confidence in it unless there is a human awake and prepared to take control at crucial moments.It is worth noting that at this time, there are no production level vehicles that do not require constant driver monitoring, the report stated. Follow me on Twitter. Check out my website. Greg Gardner I have worked through three recessions, chronicled the rise of Asia and European automakers in the U.S., the bankruptcies of General Motors and Chrysler, and witnessed ... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

