Facebook, Amazon And Cisco Fail To Join The New Highs NASDAQ Rally performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); John Navin Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Investing Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Roll of hundred dollar bills. $100 roll, black and white.GettyYou would think that certain highly recognizable big name NASDAQ stocks mentioned every day in the financial media would be doing better price-wise than they have been lately. While stock market indices like the Standard and Poors 500, the NASDAQ Composite and the Dow Jones Industrial Average just keep on hitting new highs, 3 widely-followed favorites cant quite keep up.Facebook, Amazon and Cisco Systems are not making new high prices. Chief Executive Officers of each company Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos and Chuck Robbins are profiled and quoted regularly but I havent seen anything theyve said lately about why they might be under-performing the broad indices.Heres the daily price chart of the NASDAQ Composite:NASDAQ Composite daily price chart, 11 16 19.stockcharts.comThe broad index surpassed the July peak in early November and this week climbed to even higher highs. Generally speaking, this type of breakout signifies confidence in the ability of the economy to sustain growth.Thats why its peculiar to see such a widely followed name as Facebook unable to continue higher with the rest of the crowd. Heres the daily price chart for Mark Zuckerbergs huge data-collection operation:Facebook daily price chart, 11 16 19.stockcharts.comThis weeks price is obviously much lower than the July peak. The red circled blankness indicates how much further Facebook needs to go to meet the previous high. Its quite a divergence from such a high profile NASDAQ stock.Heres the daily chart of Amazon:Amazon daily price chart, 11 16 19.stockcharts.comYou can clearly make out how the stock is nowhere near a new high again, significantly diverging from the wider NASDAQ group of stocks. This weeks closing price is at the bottom of the red circled area it would have to rise to the top of that circle to meet the July peak.Heres the daily chart for Cisco Systems:Cisco Systems daily price chart, 11 16 19.stockcharts.comThe price high came in July. This week, while the NASDAQ Composite hit widely publicized higher highs, this stock did not even come close. The extent of Ciscos decline from the summertime peak is apparent in the big red circle of lack of gain.That such well regarded big names are failing to keep up with the broader index might be a problem for continued upward movement in the index. From the standpoint of simple price chart analysis, you would want such stocks to be leading, not falling behind.That said, it is true that these stocks could now begin to turn around and rally and that the NASDAQ could continue to rise anything is possible. Its the stock market. Good luck.Stats courtesy of FinViz.com.I do not hold positions in these investments.No recommendations are made one way or the other.If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. John Navin My Marketocracy work is profiled in The Warren Buffetts Next Door: The World's Greatest Investors You've Never Heard Of by Forbes Investments Editor Matt Schifrin. I'm a... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

