Half Of Apples Business Is at Risk performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Stephen McBride Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets The editor of RiskHedge Report Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin 2019 Bloomberg Finance LPWhen Apple CEO Tim Cook took the stage this September, nobody expected the shocking news he was about to deliver. He unveiled the new iPhone 11the most advanced phone Apple has ever made. But it was not the triple-lens camera and lustrous finishes that stole the show. It was the phones price tag.For the first time ever, Apple cut its iPhone price. As Ill explain, Apple made this move out of desperation, and it may well spell the end of Apples run as a dominant company. Apple Is a Phone CompanyLets get one thing straight. Apple is not a computer company anymore. Apple is a phone company. Since it introduced the iPhone in 2007, Apple has sold 2.2 billion phones raking in over a trillion dollars in salesmore than any other phone maker in history. Meanwhile, Apple stock shot up over 2,037% and became the worlds largest publicly traded company.Apple stock priceRiskHedgeiPhone Is Apples Golden GooseApple has earned a whopping $1.99 trillion since 2007. The thing is, more than half of it came from iPhone sales. iPhone is not only Apples best-selling product by far. Its also the companys most profitable product.For every dollar an iPhone brings into the company, Apple earns $0.600.74, according to PhoneArena. Compare that to the MacBook AirApples most profitable notebookwhich earns a mere $0.29 on the dollar. If it werent for the iPhone, Apple wouldnt be where it is today. Without the iPhone, Apple would be a mediocre computer company like Dell at best.iPhone Sales Stalled OutFor years, iPhone revenues have sprinted higher at an exponential pace. But in 2015, Apple reached an inflection point. The growth of its iPhone sales has died out, as you can see below:iPhone salesRiskHedgeLast year, Apple sold 14 million fewer phones than it did three years ago. Thats not unusual, though. When Apple unveiled the first iPhone, the smartphone was groundbreaking technology. The typical lifecycle of a groundbreaking technology looks like this: Sales skyrocket out of the gate, then flatten out as the market matures, and finally take an inevitable downturn.Twelve years ago, only 120 million people had a cell phone. Today, over five billion people own a smartphone, according to IDC. Apple Found a Way to Extend the iPhone LifecycleAs I wrote earlier, Apple has found a masterful way to extend iPhones prime time. The company raised iPhone prices to offset slowing sales and keep its revenue figures growing.Think about it, in 2010, you could buy a brand-new iPhone 4 for $599. In 2017, you would have had to fork over $849 for the iPhone 8 and $1,149 for the iPhone X, Apples most expensive phone.The price hikes kept Apples growth engine alive and for this reason, its revenues have gone on marching higher since 2011. But there was also another reason Apple was forced to hike its phone pricesiPhones Are More Expensive for Apple, TooTake a close look at the chart below. It shows how much it costs for Apple to make an iPhone...iPhone costsRiskHedgeWith the exception of a few years, the cost of making an iPhone has been climbing higher since 2007. The first iPhone cost Apple just above $200 to make. Meanwhile, iPhone XS (the latest iPhone Apple reported on) costs double that.Apple has always set records with its phone prices. But as you can see, it did it for a reason. It had to offset the ever-growing costs. And as I warned my readers before, it was just a matter of time before Apple had to pull back with its pricing. It didnt take long.iPhone Has a New Feature: Lower Prices Last September, Apple unveiled iPhone XR, a less advanced and more affordable version of the iPhone X. It cost $749, a 35% drop from the iPhone Xs $1,145 price tag. But in truth, it was almost the same iPhone X, only disguised as a budget phone. It was basically an excuse for Apple to release a cheaper phone to get its sales figures back on track. This year, Apple went a step further. It slashed the price of its full-fledged iPhone. The newly released iPhone 11 started at $699, a price point not seen since 2017. Apple did it as a last resort to spur lackluster demand. But in doing so, it has signaled the beginning of the end of its lucrative iPhone business.The End of AppleSee whats happening? Not only is Apple selling fewer iPhones, its now earning much less on each one.Recent financial reports show that iPhone revenueswhich have been Apples lifebloodare starting to sink. Last quarter, Apple earned 10% less from iPhones than it did during the same period last year. Thats a loss of about $20 billion!Apple has never earned so little from iPhones, and all this will start showing up in Apples financial reports very soon.Let me make it clear: half of Apples business is going off the rails, and theres no turning back.While Apple admits the demise of iPhone and is looking into new business directions, these things dont happen overnight. Meanwhile, Apples money-making machine is grinding to a halt. As I warned you earlier this year, Apple is a ticking time bomb. And for this reason, Id recommend staying away from this stock.Written with the assistance of Dainius Runkeviius.Get my report"The Great Disruptors:3 Breakthrough Stocks Set to Double Your Money".These stocks will hand you 100% gains as they disrupt whole industries.Get your free copy here. Check out my website. Stephen McBride I'm a professional investor and the chief analyst at RiskHedge, a disruption research firm. My team and I hunt for under-the-radar "disruptive" companies that are chang... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

