Heres Why Aaron Sorkin And Mark Zuckerberg Are Feuding performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Lisette Voytko Forbes Staff Business Breaking News Reporter Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Zuckerberg doubled down on Facebook's fact-check policy for political ads during a Wednesday ... [+] earnings call, saying, In a democracy, I dont think its right for private companies to censor politicians or the news.Drew Angerer/Getty ImagesTopline: Screenwriter Aaron Sorkin and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg took shots at each other this week as Facebook comes under unrelenting scrutiny from lawmakers concerned about the platforms controversial policy to not fact-check political ads.In a Thursday op-ed for the New York Times, Sorkin said Zuckerberg was assaulting truth by claiming Facebooks political ads are protected by free speech, and therefore do not require fact-checking.Zuckerberg fired back using a monologue from one of Sorkins own movies1995s The American Presidentwhich he posted to his Facebook page.You want to claim this land as the land of the free? Then the symbol of your country cant just be a flag; the symbol also has to be one of its citizens exercising his right to burn that flag in protest, quoted Zuckerberg.Zuckerberg appears more aggressive lately in responding to criticism; in October, he also defended meeting with conservative politicians and media, saying hearing from a wide range of viewpoints is part of learning and If you havent tried it, I suggest you do!The Washington Post reported that Sorkins editorial was one of Hollywoods first attacks on Facebooks political ad policy.Meanwhile, the New York Times had to issue three corrections to Sorkins op-ed: He got The Social Networks release year wrong, along with the type of lawsuit that bankrupted Gawker and a statistic about how many Americans get their news from Facebook.Chief critic: Elizabeth Spiers, Gawkers founding editor-in-chief, took to Twitter and clarified that the Gawker lawsuit was an invasion of privacy claim, not a defamation claim. She also said that even though Gawker wrote a lot of negative stories, they were not inherently defamatory because of their negativity.Key background: Sorkin won a screenwriting Oscar for The Social Network, a dramatic retelling of Facebooks founding and the rise of social media. In 2014, Zuckerberg said the film made up a bunch of stuff that I found kind of hurtful. Since then, Facebook has been resoundly criticized for upending global politics by allowing the spread of misinformation, which it claims it is working to limit ahead of 2020. To protest Facebooks political ad policy, Elizabeth Warren ran one claiming Facebook had endorsed President Trump and that the platform allows a candidate to intentionally lie to the American people. Zuckerberg doubled down on the policy during a Wednesday earnings call, saying, In a democracy, I dont think its right for private companies to censor politicians or the news.What to watch for: Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey announced that the social network will ban all political advertising, beginning in November. After Zuckerberg was grilled on Capitol Hill last weekand his exchange with Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez went viralit remains unclear if Facebook will alter its political advertising policy.Tangent: Zuckerberg didnt have a particularly great time last week, either. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Lisette Voytko I'm a New York-based journalist covering breaking news at Forbes. I hold a master's degree from Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism. Previous bylines: G... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

