Instagram And Facebook Hit By Thanksgiving Outages performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Isabel Togoh Forbes Staff Retail I cover breaking news. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin ASSOCIATED PRESSTopline: Instagram and Facebook users around the world suffered partial outages on Thursday, with disgruntled users in the U.S. frustrated at not being able to post their Thanksgiving messages and photos.The Facebook-owned apps appeared to be down for users across the world, with most complaints coming from Europe, parts of the U.S. and South America, according to website Down Detector.According to Down Detector, which collects data from a range of sources including Twitter, most affected Instagram users had issues with the news feed not loading, while others reported issues with posting. Most affected users on Facebook had issues with logging in or not being able to access the app at all.Some Twitter users joked that the occasion forced them into socializing with their relatives on Thanksgiving. #instagramdown was the top trending hashtag on Twitter as of Thursday morning in the U.S.The outage comes at a crucial time for brands, which will be hoping to use the Thanksgiving lull to attract shoppers to their Black Friday deals.Crucial quote: A spokesperson for Facebook said in an email: Earlier today, people may have experienced trouble accessing Facebook's family of apps. The issue has since been resolved, we are back to 100% for everyone and we're sorry for any inconvenience.Fun fact: Thanksgiving Day in 2012 was at that point Instagrams busiest day ever. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Isabel Togoh I am a breaking news reporter for Forbes in London, covering Europe and the U.S. Previously I was a news reporter for HuffPost UK, the Press Association and a night rep... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

