UberBOAT Dips Its Toes Into Nigerian Water performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Kori Hale Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Personal Finance Im the CEO of CultureBanx, redefining business news for minorities. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin An employee looks at a smartphone Uber app with his location as he pilots a Beneteau SA motor boat ... [+] owned by Navette-Tezman Holding and operated through the UberBOAT taxi service, a unit of Uber Technologies Inc., on the Bosporus strait in Istanbul, Turkey, on Friday, Aug. 28, 2015. The service will appear on the smartphone app when a user stands near the coastline of the city's central waterway. Photographer: Kerem Uzel/Bloomberg 2015 Bloomberg Finance LPUber as expanded its ride sharing service model to the water with the launch of UberBoat in Nigeria. Since traffic congestion has been an issue for a long time and the government still doesnt have a full handle on the situation, taking to the water could prove to be a profitable and valuable solution. Perhaps this is a model the company could replicate in other densely populated cities around the world, as they look to diversify their revenue model.The Breakdown You Need to Know: Nigerias water transport is gaining in popularity, which is why Uber launched a pilot test in conjunction with Texas Connection Ferries, a Lagos boat operator, and the Lagos State Waterways Authority. A one-way trip between Ikorodu Ferry Terminal and Five Cowries Terminal will cost 500 ($1.39). Its a bit pricey when you consider that in the West African country most people live on less than $2 a day.The countrys population will more than double to 400 million by 2050, according to the United Nations. Specifically Lagos has a population of more than 20 million, and CultureBanx noted all of these people can be converted into consumers, which makes Nigeria attractive to foreign transport companies like Uber. Nigerias commercial capital has one of the highest car densities in the world, with about 200 cars per kilometer causing traffic congestion, according to Bloomberg.For a company with a market value of $52 billion and steadily declining revenues this could be one way to help buoy the bottom line if this model can be replicated in other cities around the world. The company lost around $1 billion dollars in the first quarter of the year.Theres already competition for UberBOAT in Nigeria with Gokada, the bike-hailing service that launched its own boat hailing service, Gboat. Its main competitor Gboat only charges 200 for a trip from Pavilion Jetty to Five Cowries Creek Terminal in Lagos. Clearly a cheaper water alternative to getting around then what Uber is offering.Whats Next: Nigerias underutilized waterways are seen as a viable transportation alternative to relieve pressure on the roads. In order to make this new service even more appealing, customers will get 50% discount on Uber taxis when used for rides to the boat jetty. Testing for UberBOAT will last for just two weeks and the boats will be available four times a day from 8am - 5pm. Follow me on Twitter. Kori Hale I am the CEO of CultureBanx covering the intersection of business, technology and innovation for minorities. I was raised in investment banking while working at UBS inte... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

