Lawsuit Against Facebook Uses Public Accommodation Law to Challenge Advertising performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Patricia Barnes Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Diversity & Inclusion I am an attorney, author and consultant on employment discrimination. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin BLOOMBERG NEWSIt is discriminatory for a business to target advertising for jobs, housing and consumer credit on the basis of age and sex but what advertisements for car loans, reverse mortgages and personal financial services?A proposed class action lawsuit was filed recently in federal court in San Francisco charging Facebook Inc. with discriminating against millions of older and female users for allegedly withholding advertising for financial services, like bank accounts, loans, insurance, investments.The lawsuit is not based on federal civil rights laws that prohibit sex, age and credit discrimination, including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 and the Equal Credit Opportunity ActInstead, the lawsuit is based on a California statute, the Unruh Civil Rights Act, which states that all people in the state, regardless of sex, race, disability or other characteristics, are entitled to "full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments of every kind whatsoever." Most states have so called public accommodation laws.The Unruh law is best known for challenging discriminatory business practices such as Ladies Nights at bars where women pay lower drink prices. The lawsuit, if successful, could have a broad impact on advertising that targets a specific audience but was not traditionally considered discriminatory, even if that was its effect.Peter Romer-Friedman of the Washington, D.C. law firm, Outten & Golden LLP, which filed the lawsuit, said Facebooks ad targeting practices have deprived millions of older people and women of the opportunity to receive advertisements regarding valuable investment opportunities. He cited as examples stock trading services and an investment opportunity involving Airbnb, the online marketplace for temporary lodging. According to Romer-Friedman, Californias Unruh law requires businessesincluding Facebookto provide equal treatment to all of their customers. Romer-Friedman agreed Monday the case could have significant importance to all advertisers who target ads but declined to discuss the matter. When asked if, for example, the Unruh law requires luxury yacht manufacturers to advertise to a general audience irrespective of income, Romer-Friedman said, I dont want to address that. According to the complaint, Facebook requires advertisers to select the age and gender of the Facebook users who will receive the ad. The default setting for age is 18 to 65+ but Facebook strongly encourages advertisers to narrow the age range of the individuals who will receive their ads to make them more effective. In response to the lawsuit, Facebook said, Weve made significant changes to how housing, employment and credit opportunities are run on Facebook and continue to work on ways to prevent potential misuse.The statement says Facebooks advertising policies prohibit unlawful discrimination.Facebook settled several lawsuits last March by civil rights groups including one filed by Outten & Golden, complaining the social media giant let employers, landlords and lenders discriminate by age, gender and zip code when placing job, housing and credit ads. In July, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) found reasonable cause that federal discrimination laws were violated when seven employers restricted the recipients of employment advertisements on Facebook to exclude older persons. The EEOC asked the employers to resolve the matter informally through a process called conciliation which could result in a type of out-of-court settlement. Californias Unruh Civil Rights Act provides damages of $4,000 per violation.The named Plaintiff in the case is Neuhtah Opiotennione, 54, of Washington, D.C., who also was named as the plaintiff in a class action lawsuit filed in September by Outten & Golden that alleges seven housing companies that lease or manage property in the D.C. area used Facebooks advertising system to target younger users. Opiotennione works for the D.C. Public School System. According to its Annual Report, Facebook had 1.52 billion daily active users and 2.32 billion monthly active users in 2018. The case is Opiotennione et al v. Facebook Inc, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, No. 19-07185. Check out my website. Patricia Barnes I am an attorney, former judge, and recognized authority on age discrimination in employment. After experiencing age discrimination during the Great Recession, I be... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

