I Understand Were Not The Ideal Messenger Right Now: Read Mark Zuckerbergs Remarks To Congress performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Sergei Klebnikov Forbes Staff Markets I cover breaking news, with a focus on money and markets. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin The Facebook CEO is set to face critical questions from lawmakers on Wednesday.Andrew Harnik/ASSOCIATED PRESSTopline: Mark Zuckerberg returns to Capitol Hill for another hearing on Wednesday, this time to reassure Congress about plans for Facebooks Libra cryptocurrency and address other concerns about Facebooks platform.Here are the key takeaways from his prepared testimony:Zuckerberg reassured that Libra would operate under a coalition of partners and independently from Facebook, but he also made clear that Facebook will not help launch the payments system anywhere in the world until U.S. regulators approve.He also framed Libra in terms of American nationalism, saying that it will extend Americas financial leadership as well as our democratic values and oversight around the world, and that if the U.S. doesnt lead on this, other countries like China will.He addressed concerns about the project, saying that Facebook will not sell peoples data, nor share it with outside parties for advertising or credit decisions.Zuckerberg reiterated that Calibra, the digital wallet used to manage Libra currency, will have strong consumer protections, with its financial data clearly separated from Facebooks social data.I want to be clear: this is not an attempt to create a sovereign currency, Zuckerberg also said. Monetary policy is the province of central banks, not Libra.The Facebook CEO additionally talked about how the company is trying to prevent discrimination in advertising on its platform: By creating a new Civil Rights Task Force, extending bans on white supremacy, working to prevent the spread of misinformation in upcoming elections and combatting voter suppression.Crucial quote: This has been a challenging few years for Facebook, Zuckerberg admitted. We understand we have a lot to do to live up to peoples expectations on issues like privacy and security.Read the rest of Zuckerbergs testimony, in full, below:HEARING BEFORE THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICESOctober 23, 2019Testimony of Mark Zuckerberg Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, FacebookI. IntroductionChairwoman Waters, Ranking Member McHenry, and members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to testify today.There are more than a billion people around the world who dont have access to a bank account, but could through mobile phones if the right system existed. This includes 14 million people here in the US. Being shut out of the financial system has real consequences for peoples livesand its often the most disadvantaged people who pay the highest price.People pay far too high a costand have to wait far too longto send money home to their families abroad. The current system is failing them. The financial industry is stagnant and there is no digital financial architecture to support the innovation we need. I believe this problem can be solved, and Libra can help.The idea behind Libra is that sending money should be as easy and secure as sending a text message. Libra will be a global payments system, fully backed by a reserve of cash and other highly liquid assets.I believe this is something that needs to get built, but I understand were not the ideal messenger right now. Weve faced a lot of issues over the past few years, and Im sure people wish it was anyone but Facebook putting this idea forward.But theres a reason we care about this. Facebook is about putting power in peoples hands. Our services give people voice to express what matters to them, and to build businesses that create opportunity. Giving people control of their money is important too. A simple, secure, and stable way to transfer money is empowering. Over the long term, if it means more people transact on our platforms, that would be good for our business. But even if it doesnt, it could help people everywhere.Before we move forward, there are important risks that need to be addressed. There are questions about financial stability, fighting terrorism, and more. Im here today to discuss those risks and how we plan to address them.But I also hope we can talk about the risks of not innovating. While we debate these issues, the rest of the world isnt waiting. China is moving quickly to launch similar ideas in the coming months. Libra will be backed mostly by dollars and I believe it will extend Americas financial leadership as well as our democratic values and oversight around the world. If America doesnt innovate, our financial leadership is not guaranteed.We co-wrote a white paper to put this idea out into the world and start a conversation with regulators, experts, and governments. Todays hearing is an important part of that process. What were discussing today is too important for any single company to do on its own.Thats why we helped found the Libra Associationa coalition of 21 companies and non-profits working to give everyone access to financial tools. But even though the Libra Association is independent and we dont control it, I want to be clear: Facebook will not be part of launching the Libra payments system anywhere in the world until US regulators approve.Last time I testified before Congress I talked about taking a broader view of our responsibility. That includes making sure our services are used for good and preventing harm.People shouldnt be discriminated against on any of our services. We have policies in place to prevent hate speech and remove harmful content. But discrimination can also show up in how ads are targeted and shown. As part of a settlement with civil rights groups, weve banned advertisers from using age, gender, or zip codes to target housing, employment, or credit opportunities, and weve limited interest-based targeting for these ads. This is part of our commitment to support civil rights and prevent discrimination.I also know we need more diverse perspectives in our company. Diversity leads to better decisions and better services for our community. Weve made diversity a priority in hiring, and weve made a commitment: within five years, we want at least 50% of our workforce to be women, people of color, and other underrepresented groups.Weve made some progress. There are more people of color, women in technical and business roles, and underrepresented people in leadership at Facebook. But I know we still have a long way to go.This has been a challenging few years for Facebook. I recognize we play an important role in our society, and we have unique responsibilities. I feel blessed to be in a position where we can make a difference in peoples lives, and, for as long as were here, Im committed to using our position to push for big ideas that we believe can empower people.II. The Libra ProjectThe Libra project is about promoting financial inclusion through a safe, low-cost, and efficient way of sending and receiving payments around the world. Research shows that access to financial services can help people lift themselves out of poverty, and it is especially important for women in developing economies. We believe this is a problem that can be solved, and we want to be part of that solution.Libra is one potential approach, and were proud to have helped found a 21-member coalition of companies and social impact organizations that have now committed to moving forward with this idea. Establishing this broad-based coalition is a positive step, and I welcome the conversation that Libra has sparked. But by design, we dont expect to be leading those efforts going forward. The Libra Association has been created, has a governance structure in place, and will be driving the project from now on.At Facebook, were also exploring other ways of giving more people access to financial services, for example by lowering remittance costs through our existing platforms. We recognize that other organizations are working on this challenge too, and we support that.We will continue talking to regulators about our efforts. We understand that whatever approach we take to promote financial inclusion must address regulatory concerns, including money laundering and terrorism financing, sanctions, and potential currency disruption and systemic risk. I know that the Libra Association is mindful of those things as it proceeds, and at Facebook, were focused on those concerns as we explore what we can do as a company to address financial inclusion. We also understand the importance of being transparent about our efforts.I recognize that some have expressed concerns about the Libra project and Facebooks role in it. I want to talk briefly about how we are working to address the concerns weve heard.First, weve heard that people are concerned that we are moving too fast. As we have said from the beginning, were committed to taking the time to get this right. We co-wrote a white paper to begin a dialogue with experts and the regulators and policymakers who oversee the stability and security of our financial systems. It was never intended to be the final word on the project. The goal was to signal the direction we want to go and to start a conversation about how to get there. That conversation is ongoing, and we will continue to advocate for responsible innovation in this space.Second, some have suggested that we intend to circumvent regulators and regulations. We want to be clear: Facebook will not be a part of launching the Libra payments system anywhere in the world unless all US regulators approve it. And we support Libra delaying its launch until it has fully addressed US regulatory concerns.We have met with regulators in 30 different jurisdictions. The Association has been focused on regulators and other stakeholders, but Association membersincluding Calibra, Facebooks Libra-related subsidiaryare also talking with elected officials, including many here in Congress. This is how democratic oversight and scrutiny should work.When it comes to Calibra, I know some people wonder whether we can be trusted to build payment services that protect consumers. We recognize our responsibility to provide people with all the protections they expect when they are sending and receiving payments online. We already do this across our services. For example, every day, people buy products through Instagram Shopping, which helps businesses of all sizes show customers things they might be interested in. People purchase goods from each other on Facebook Marketplace and send money to friends and family through Messenger.Facebook is committed to strong consumer protections for the financial information we receive, and I want to be clear about how we handle that information: We do not sell peoples data. We do not use peoples data to make decisions about lending, or to create credit reports. We do not share information with third parties for lending or credit decisions. We use information about transactions that happen on our products to improve our services, including advertising. However, we do not use peoples payment account information itself for advertising purposes.Payments processed through Facebooks licensed payments subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive anti-money laundering, counterterrorist financing, and sanctions monitoring that leverage both our automated systems and human review, and we report suspicious payments activity to applicable authorities consistent with our regulatory obligations. We also have policies in place to prevent fraud.Were committed to building similarly robust compliance systems for the Calibra app, as well as strong consumer protections, customer support, and password recovery. Automated tools will proactively monitor activity to detect fraudulent behavior, and Calibra plans to refund any unauthorized transactions.I also recognize that there are concerns about our access to peoples financial data if they use Calibra. We set up Calibra as a regulated subsidiary, so that there is clear separation between Facebooks social data and Calibras financial data. Calibra will not share customers account information or financial data with Facebook, except to prevent fraud or criminal activity, when people affirmatively choose to share their data, or when we are legally obligated to do so.Finally, theres the question of whether Libra is intended to replace sovereign currency, and whether its appropriate for private companies to be involved in this kind of innovation. I want to be clear: this is not an attempt to create a sovereign currency. Like existing online payment systems, its a way for people to transfer money.Monetary policy is the province of central banks, not Libra. The Libra Association has no intention of competing with any sovereign currencies or entering the monetary policy arena. It will work with the Federal Reserve and other central banks responsible for monetary policy to make sure that is the case. We expect the regulatory framework for the Libra Association will ensure that the Association cannot interfere with monetary policy. Libra is also being designed with economic security and stability in mind, and it will be fully backed through the Libra Reserve.We also believe Libra presents an opportunity to strengthen the fight against financial crimes like money laundering and terrorism financing. A lot of illicit activities are funded through cash. A digital payments system with regulated on- and off-ramps and proper know your customer practices is easier to secure, and law enforcement and regulators can conduct their own analysis of on-chain activity.I hope we can find a way to move forward in this area, because we believe responsible innovation like Libra can give more people access to the financial tools that many of us take for granted.A digital payments system is going to be important in the future. If America doesnt lead on this, others will. Foreign companies or countries may act without the same regulatory oversight or commitment to transparency that we have. Were already seeing how companies with very different values are restricting people based on their beliefs. Theres no guarantee that services which support democracy and fundamental rights around expression will win out.More broadly, were in a time when our industry and our company in particular are under increased scrutiny. Technology is playing a greater role in our lives and our society, and weve made mistakes. But if healthy skepticism becomes all-out hostility, well put a lot of progress at risk not just in the world, where American tech companies have an opportunity to champion American values, but also closer to home. Six million Americans work in the internet sector. Last year, our industry invested over $60 billion, helping to drive research and innovation in this country. The internet sector makes up 10.1% of US GDP. And we operate services that create a lot of value in peoples lives.Those jobs, that investment, and that innovation didnt happen by accident. Theyre the result of our willingness to try new thingseven if theyre difficult, and even if they dont always work. I understand people have concerns about Libra. But I think it would be bad for our country and the world if companies were discouraged from taking on challenges like these, and settled for safer options that reinforce the status quo. That would harm our national reputation for innovation, make our economy less competitive, and end up concentrating more power in the hands of existing players rather than people.III. Combating DiscriminationWhile we believe in innovation, we also recognize that we have a responsibility to ensure that the products and services we build are used for good. For example, people shouldnt be discriminated against on Facebook.A. Preventing Discrimination in AdsAdvertisers on Facebook are able to choose to show their ads to people who may be interested in specific topics. This is an important part of how our platform democratizes advertising. If you run a small business, you can show your ads to people who are more likely to be interested in them for example, people who are interested in the specific products or services you offer.Our policies have long prohibited discrimination, but we have made significant changes to our ads platform to further prevent advertisers from misusing our tools to discriminate in their ad targeting.Earlier this year, we announced changes in how we manage housing, employment, and credit ads on our platform. This was part of historic settlement agreements with civil rights organizations like the National Fair Housing Alliance and based on ongoing input from civil rights experts. Advertisers who want to post ads on these subjects now have to go through a special ads purchasing process that does not permit targeting by age, gender, or zip code. Weve limited the interest-based categories available to advertisers in this special ads purchasing process to a small number of broad-based interest categories that dont relate to protected class features. And we are giving people the ability to search for and view all current housing ads in the US by advertiser, regardless of who the ads are shown to. Were committed to going beyond the settlement agreements to let people search US employment and credit ads on Facebook too.We have more to do here. But we are proud of these recent efforts and the message they send about Facebooks commitment to civil rights and to protecting our users from potential discrimination. The National Fair Housing Alliance has noted that the changes we are making position Facebook to be a pacesetter and a leader on civil rights issues in the tech field.B. Our Civil Rights AuditAdvertising is only one way that people interact with our platform, which is why we also work to make sure our policies are fair and unbiased. Our engagement with civil rights leader Laura Murphys ongoing civil rights audit of our company speaks to that commitment.In response to feedback we have received, weve made a number of changes, including: Creating and formalizing a Civil Rights Task Force, which meets monthly for the purpose of surfacing, discussing, and addressing civil rights issues. Extending our longstanding ban on white supremacy to include white nationalism and white separatism. Working to prevent misinformation and interference in both upcoming elections and the 2020 Census. Combating voter suppression by updating our policies and taking steps to become more proactive. For instance, during the 2018 US midterm elections, our team found and removed more than 45,000 instances of voter suppression content designed to discourage people from voting. We proactively identified more than 90% of this content before it was reported to Facebook.IV. Combating DiscriminationWe know that we need a diverse set of perspectives from our workforce. That is why we make diversity a priority in hiring. We have a lot of work to do, but we are committed to our goal of having a company where in the next five years, at least 50% of our workforce is comprised of women, people of color, and other underrepresented groups.We value diversity at Facebook because it leads to better decisions, better products, and better culture. It also ensures that the products we build reflect the community of people around the world who use them.When it comes to hiring, we have a diverse slate approach. This ensures that recruiters present qualified candidates from underrepresented groups to hiring managers looking to fill open roles. Weve seen steady increases in hiring rates for underrepresented people since we started testing this approach in 2015.Today, there are more people of diverse backgrounds and experiences, more people of color, more women in both technical and business roles, and more underrepresented people in leadership at Facebook. Weve achieved higher representation of women in leadership by focusing on hiring and growing female leaders within the company. Over the last several years, the majority of new female leaders were internally promoted. Last year, we spent over 400 million dollars on certified diverse suppliersa 73% increase from 2017. Thirty-four percent of those suppliers are women-owned, and 70% are minority-owned.As part of our efforts, weve worked to build strong relationships with organizations that support people of color and women. We have partnerships with organizations like CodePath.org, the United Negro College Fund, and historically black colleges and universities. We run an internship 7 program, Facebook University, for students from underrepresented communities, and the Facebook Summer Academy, for high school students from Menlo Park, East Palo Alto, and San Francisco. Our investments in K-12 education initiatives may not show up in hiring statistics for many years, but we are committed to giving more people from underrepresented groups the skills and experiences they need to find a career in technology.Im the first to acknowledge that we still have a lot of work to do. We arent where we need to be on diversity, particularly at the leadership level. It took us too long to focus on diversity in a rigorous way and, as a result, the improvements we have made havent moved the needle as much as we would like. But we are committed to this, and we will to work hard to get to where we know we need to be. If we can do that, Facebook will be a stronger company and better able to advance our mission and live up to the responsibility that comes with it.V. ConclusionThis has been a challenging few years for Facebook. We understand we have a lot to do to live up to peoples expectations on issues like privacy and security. We know that companies like Facebook have become a part of peoples everyday lives, and that comes with immense responsibilities and a lot of very difficult judgments. We dont think we should be tackling these issues alone, which is why Ive called for a more active role for governments and regulators on harmful content, protecting elections, privacy, and data portability.I know we have a lot to do, but I also know that the problem of financial under-inclusion is solvable, and I believe that we can play a role in helping to find the solution. I hope that today I can answer some of your questions. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Send me a secure tip. Sergei Klebnikov I am a New Yorkbased reporter for Forbes, covering breaking newswith a focus on financial topics. Previously, I've reported at Money Magazine, The Villager NYC, and T... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

