Google Scores Fitbit For $2.1 Billion In Move That Could Help It To Compete With Apple performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Isabel Togoh Forbes Staff Retail I cover breaking news. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin 2017 Getty ImagesTopline: Google is acquiring wearables firm Fitbit in an effort to capture a larger share of the sector in a deal that values the smartwatch company at $2.1 billion.The deal, which sees Google acquire Fitbit for $7.35 per share, will enable Google to strengthen it wearables offering, particularly its Wear OS software, as well as introducing Made by Google wearables, Googles Devices and Services SVP Rick Osterloh said.Preemptively, Google addressed privacy concerns in its statement and vowed to protect user information, while Fitbit also assured customers that health and wellbeing data would not be used for Google ads.Fitbit stock climbed 16% on Fridays announcement.The deal is expected to close in 2020 and comes after Google acquired rights to Fossils smartwatch technology in January.Key background: Fitbits status within the wearables sector has been challenged of late by cheaper offerings from competitors such as Chinas Huawei and market-leading electronics firm Xiaomi, which holds around 17% of the wearables market to Fitbits 10%, according to International Data Crop, cited by Reuters. Googles acquisition will help Fitbit to compete against firms with better resources such as Samsung and Apple, whose wearables offering helped to boost the firm's latest earnings beyond expectations. Fitbit, which spearheaded the popularity of wearable devices after it was founded in 2007, has been making acquisitions in health software and smartwatch firms in a bid to diversify its income, Reuters reports.Surprising fact: Fitbit boasts 28 million users on its platform and has sold more than 100 million devices.What to watch for: Fitbit, as well as Googles parent firm Alphabet, are due to report their earnings next week. Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. Isabel Togoh I am a breaking news reporter for Forbes in London, covering Europe and the U.S. Previously I was a news reporter for HuffPost UK, the Press Association and a night rep... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

