Microsoft Is Doing A Great Job Keeping Its Complex Partner Ecosystem Happy performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Trefis Team Contributor Great Speculations Contributor Group Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin A logo sits on display outside the Microsoft Corp. pavilion at the Mobile World Congress in ... [+] Barcelona, Spain, on Wednesday, March 4, 2015. The event, which generates several hundred million euros in revenue for the city of Barcelona each year, also means the world for a week turns its attention back to Europe for the latest in technology, despite a lagging ecosystem. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 2015 Bloomberg Finance LPMicrosofts (NASDAQ: MSFT) announcement late last month of an earnings beat for its fiscal first quarter (ending September) was accompanied by CEO Satya Nadella explaining that Microsoft works closely with its partners to enhance the partners go-to-market strategies. And clearly Microsoft gains from this symbiotic relationship, as all development and analytics get fed into Azure making the overall process self-sustainable.Notably, though, Microsofts partnership portfolio is growing in an interesting manner. While Microsoft has a tie-up with Oracle, it also tied up with SAP Oracles biggest competitor in databases recently. Also, VMware has had a preferred relationship with Amazon Web Services for some time now, but Microsoft also managed to secure a similar arrangement with VMware. Microsofts focus on partnering with huge (often competing) companies comes with its challenges. But considering the strong growth in Microsofts Revenues over recent quarters the company seems to be up to the task.A Quick Look At Microsofts Business ModelWhat Need Does It Serve?Microsoft is a technology company that makes money from the sale of software and hardware for consumer and enterprises.What Are The Alternatives?Microsoft competes with:open source players in the office productivity and operating systems businessthe likes of Amazon, Google and IBM in cloudGoogle, Facebook and Amazon in searchElectronic Arts, Activision Blizzard and Google in GamingOracle, SAP and Amazon in databases and enterprise systems.Has 3 Operating SegmentsMore Personal Computing: Segment revenue is derived from the sale of operating systems, devices, gaming offerings and search products.Intelligent Cloud: Segment revenue is derived from the sale of public, private and hybrid server products and related cloud services.Productivity and Business Processes: Segment revenue is derived from the sale of subscription to Office, revenues from LinkedIn and from Microsofts on premise and cloud (Dynamics 365) enterprise solutions (including CRM and ERP).Microsofts revenue grew 30% over 2017-19 to $126 billion and is expected to increase 11% to nearly $139 billion by 2021(1) More Personal Computing Division Revenue growth of about $2 billion over the next two years will be driven by the companys growing focus on gaming and the impending Windows refresh cycle.(2) Intelligent Cloud Division Revenue growth of about $5 billion over the next two years will be driven by incremental use cases around cloud adoption, especially private cloud and edge.(3) Productivity And Business Processes Division Revenue growth of about $7 billion over the next two years will be driven by higher subscription revenue from Office and enterprise productsAdditional details about how revenues for Microsofts segments have trended over the years is available in our interactive dashboard.TrefisWhats behind Trefis? See How Its Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs ForCFOs and Finance Teams|Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Exploreexample interactive dashboardsand create your own Trefis Team Led by MIT engineers and Wall Street analysts, Trefis (through its dashboards platform dashboards.trefis.com) helps you understand how a company's products, that you tou... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

