AT&T Touts Three-Year Turnaround Plan; Shares Rise performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Jonathan Berr Senior Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Media I cover media companies, networks, podcasters and online streaming Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin WASHINGTON, DC - SEPTEMBER 18: Randall Stephenson, chairman and CEO of AT&T Inc., speaks at the ... [+] Council on Foreign Relations September 18, 2019 in Washington, DC. Stephenson spoke as part of the CFR Speaker Series. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)Getty ImagesShares of AT&T are trading up after the wireless/entertainment indicated that it was amendable to changes proposed by activist investor Elliott Management to improve its financial performance including the potential sale of its DirecTV satellite TV business.Though Chief Executive Randall Stephenson defended AT&Ts $67 billion (including debt) acquisition of DirecTV as an important part of the companys future plans, he noted that there were no sacred cows in the companys review. All options are being considered for AT&Ts businesses including partnerships and spin-offs.... no portion of our business is ever exempt from a continuous assessment for fit and performance, said Stephenson in a conference call with Wall Street analysts Monday. The company is reviewing its operations as part of a three-year-plan Stephenson announced today that addresses issues Elliott Management highlighted when it announced a few weeks ago its acquisition of a $3.4 billion stake in the second-largest wireless provider.Elliott Management is no fan of its 2015 DirecTV deal. It also isnt wowed by the companys entry into the media and entertainment business thanks to its $109 billion purchase of Time Warner which closed last year.The hedge fund has stopped short of demanding that AT&T unload DirecTV and Time Warner, striking a cordial tone. It released a supportive statement today, noting that it had worked closely and collaboratively with management and the Board on AT&Ts three-year plan.The combination of AT&Ts improving business performance, consistent and faster revenue growth, significant margin expansion and enhanced capital return will generate meaningful earnings and cash flow growth over the next three years, according to an Elliott Management statement.Acknowledging Elliott Managements criticism of its acquisition strategy, AT&T pledged to hold off on doing any large deals and has promised to pay off the debt it acquired as part of the Time Warner deal. It also promised to continue to buy back stock and to appoint two new members to the companys board.Stephenson, 59, also addressed concerns about the companys succession planning raised by Elliott Management including its recent promotion of WarnerMedia head John Stankey to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer. Stephenson pledged to remain as CEO until at least 2020, paving the way for Stankey to replace him. Stankey is 56.AT&T also has promised to separate the Chairman and CEO position once Stephenson retires.I believe we are on the verge of something remarkable, Stephenson said.Shares of AT&T rose 4 percent to $45.17 in mid-afternoon trading. They have gained more than 30 percent since the start of the year. The stock, though, has underperformed both the broader market and its rival Verizon over the long run.The company reported mixed quarterly results.Net income at the Dallas-based company slumped to $3.7 billion, or 50 cents per share versus $4.72 billion, or 65 cents, a year earlier, amid weakness across all of its business units. Revenue dropped 2.5 percent to $44.6 billion. Excluding one-time costs, per-share profit was 94 cents, a penny better than analysts had expected, on revenue of $44.3 billion. Follow me on Twitter. Check out my website. Jonathan Berr I have covered the media industry for major news organizations such as CBS News and Bloomberg News on and off since around 2000. My specialties include debunking conven... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

