Theres Still Time To Buy Telecoms Big Three performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Roger Conrad Contributor Great Speculations Contributor Group Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Third quarter 2019 results are in for AT&T Inc (T), Comcast Corp (CMCSA) and Verizon Communications (VZ). The key takeaway: The Big Three of US communications are still building wealth and selling cheaply.AT&Ts guidance featured a three-year strategic plan incorporating ideas from activist investor Elliott Management. In the September 21 post "Deconstructing AT&T," we highlighted three major conclusions from Elliotts letter to AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson.First, a very savvy player sees upside in AT&T. Second, the company realized Elliott wasnt going away and had decided to work with them. And third, the trend for company earnings was up.All three were affirmed with AT&Ts third quarter numbers and guidance. Under the plan, the company will separate the roles of chairman and CEO, cut debt to just 2 times cash flow, sell up to $10 billion in assets, swear off acquisitions, buy back 3 percent of its shares annually and continue low single digit dividend increases.The target for 2022 earnings per share is now $4.50 to $4.80 per share, fueled by 1 to 2 percent yearly revenue growth and margin expansion of 200 basis points. Projected free cash flow is a range of $30 to $32 billion, after industry leading capital spending.Thats a significant jump from anticipated 2019 earnings per share of $3.57 Getting there will take a successful launch of HBO Max and maintaining strong wireless customer growth as 5-G is rolled out. If the company doesnt sell shrinking DirecTV, it will have to cut costs in line with subscriber losses, just as it does with the legacy phone business.Encouragingly, the company is succeeding so far, with third quarter earnings rising 4.4 percent excluding items. Management has also increased projected 2019 free cash flow to $28 billion. Thats a 24 percent lift from 2018.Solid results and the new strategic plan pushed AT&T shares above our long-standing buy target of 38 this week. With shares trading at just 10.6 times expected 2019 full-year results and 8.3 times the mid-point of 2022 guidance, were comfortable raising our buy target to 40.For Comcast, the greatest excitement was overseas, where recently acquired Sky (8 percent of profit) boosted viewership 10 percent and lifted cash flow 38.3 percent from a year ago. Thats a very good sign for growing the units 24 million customer relationships in Europe, driven by sports content.In the US, Telemundo is still the number one Spanish language network, while NBC was tops for the 18 to 49 age group in prime time for the sixth consecutive year. Thats a solid testament to Comcasts ability to run the content side of the business.So is the 1.6 percent lift in cash flow at NBC Universal (25 percent of profits), despite challenging comparisons from several non-recurring items. Filmed entertainment sales, for example, dipped 6.2 percent and broadcast revenue dropped 9.1 percent as the environment for advertising and content licensing weakened. But the company more than offset that with higher distribution revenue, retransmission growth and cost controls.Cable, wireless and broadband networks are still key drivers at nearly two-thirds of earnings. Like the rest of its industry, the company is dealing with erosion of its traditional pay television base as customers increasingly abandon subscription plans for streaming.Unlike most rivals, however, its more than offsetting losses by adding broadband users, reaching 55 million plus overall customers on a 3.4 percent organic increase from last year. The company also boosted revenue by 9.3 percent in the intensely competitive Business Services market, taking market share from smaller rivals while capitalizing on popular offerings.Success at the network is in no small part thanks to the powerful marriage of strong content with a superior network this decade. And those advantages will be showcased further over the next 12 months, as the company expands its Flex broadband offering and ramps up the Peacock streaming service.Not surprisingly, Comcast posted another round of robust headline numbers, with third quarter revenue and earnings increased by 21.2 percent and 16.2 percent, respectively. And with the stock trading at just 13.7 times expected 2019 full-year results, were now comfortable raising our highest recommended entry point for the king of cable to 45.Compared with the rest of the Big Three, Verizons third quarter headline numbers were modest, with earnings increasing 2.5 percent on a 1.4 percent boost in revenue. Below the surface, however, was a 10 percent increase in the pace of wireless customer additions, as the company rolled out 5-G service to 15 US cities as of the end of the quarter. Net growth of Business wireless users increased by 12.1 percent and retail contract customer churn came in at an industry low 79 basis points.Verizons Fios offering followed the industry wide trend of losing pay television customers. But the company more than offset the impact on revenue (up 1.7 percent) with additions of broadband Internet users.Global enterprise revenue shrank by 2.4 percent. But the company saw strong 6.2 percent growth in sales to small and medium sized businesses, which are increasingly offsetting the long-term trend of declining legacy wholesale.The media unit stabilized revenue, a sharp improvement from previous quarters as benefits of streamlining kick in. And the company has already realized nearly half the $10 billion cash expense savings overall for 2021 from a 2018 plan.Rollout of 5-G remains Verizons most important focus. During the companys earnings call, CEO Hans Vestberg referred to a coming "next generation chipset" on the way for second half 2020 as a spur for accelerating deployment. That may also be the time to expect the companys sales growth to fire up.In the meantime, selling at just 12.2 times expected 2019 earnings, the shares scarcely reflect any promise. After these solid results and the modest 2.1 percent lift in this months dividend, were comfortable raising our highest recommended entry point for Verizon to 60. Follow me on Twitter. Roger Conrad I founded and ran the Utility Forecaster and Canadian Edge newsletters before leaving to form my own publishing company, Capitalist Times. During my almost 30-year tenur... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

