Apple Is Going To Release AR Glasses In 2023 performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Paul Armstrong Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA - JUNE 03: Apple chief design officer Jony Ive (L) uses an iPad to have an ... [+] augmented reality view of the frame of the new Mac Pro as Apple senior VP of hardware engineering Dan Riccio (R) looks on during the 2019 Apple Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) at the San Jose Convention Center on June 03, 2019 in San Jose, California. The WWDC runs through June 7. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)Getty ImagesThe Information has a scoop about Apples future AR plans. In thepiece(Subscription required), Wayne Ma, Alex Heath and Nick Wingfield describe an uncharacteristically open Apple presenting a roadmap to +1,000 employees. Something that isnt regularly reported, leaked or released (the opposite of Facebooks meetings you might say). In the meeting, Apple Vice President Mike Rockwell, who leads the team responsible for Apples AR and virtual reality initiatives, described details and specifics around design and feature sets of the mythical devices.Per The Informations scoop, Apple plans to release its first augmented reality headset (codenamed N301) in 2022, followed by a pair of smaller glasses in 2023. The description feels a mix of VR and AR, very much moving towards the realm of Magic Leap although was described as a slimmer version of Oculus Quest (owned by Facebook). Some of the details in the piece feel very Apple and likely signal the usual over-focus on detail - like tinting lenses to avoid awkwardness - that Apple famously touts when entering a new category. The Information reports that senior Apple managers said they believe the device could usurp the iPhone in ten years or less.Getting people to put things on their face has long been a challenge for all technology companies. There remains a reluctance with consumers (en mass) to adopt such technology. Apple is well placed to bypass this if it gets the design and functionality suitably matched. A big if.If you consider what Apple has done with the smartwatch, a push to glasses, while challenging, isnt such a leap and so expectations are high. Apple needs to get this right if it wants, as CEO Tim Cook described AR as in 2017, the next wave of computing. Apple does not need to rush development; Apple needs to get this right or suffer the fate of Googles Glass product and a vicious Wall Street.The open meeting is interesting. Apple couldnt have expected that +1,000 person meeting would stay private. Is it a gaff? Intentional? Why not, like other companies, make the big roadmap announcement? Potential reasons for having the meeting include a show of intent to staff who need a new focus, an open move to show employees behind the veil, whatever the reason, any news or leaks to do with Apple is market moving and this is no different. Several analysts and I have been public with the prediction that 2020 would (or should) be a big year for Apple for AR glasses. The timing feels right, and fits with the current line-up focuses. The prominent way AR gets positioned in big keynotes is another indicator of how important AR technology is for Apple. 2022, therefore, feels like a delayed product and considering Amazon and Snaps push into the spectacles field, Apple needs this product to sing from day one so a delay may not be a terrible move. The hype starts now. Follow me on LinkedIn. Check out my website. Paul Armstrong Paul runs a technology advisory business called HERE/FORTH. Follow him on Twitter @paul__armstrong. His first book, 'Disruptive Technologies', is available now.... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

