Heres Everything To Know About The Launch Of Apple TV+ performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Sergei Klebnikov Forbes Staff Markets I cover breaking news, with a focus on money and markets. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Jennifer Aniston, Apple CEO Tim Cook and Reese Witherspoon at the premiere of Apple TV+'s "The ... [+] Morning Show" in New York City. Theo Wargo/Getty ImagesTopline: Apple entered the streaming wars with much fanfare on Friday, announcing the launch of Apple TV+ as the first all-original streaming service, with a slate of high-budget new shows that it hopes can compete with rivals like Amazon, Netflix and Disney.Apple TV+ launched in over 100 countries and territories on Friday, debuting four new TV series and several other offerings, with new programming to be added each month.At $4.99 per month, Apple has deliberately priced its service cheaper than other competitorsand anyone who purchased an Apple product after September 10 can get a free one-year subscription.With its early bet on a few original series, Apple is relying on big star power to attract subscribers: One of its most heavily promoted programs, The Morning Show, stars Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon and Steve Carell.Other content released on Friday includes: For All Mankind, a science fiction drama imagining a world in which the Soviet Union wins the space race; See, a drama set in a dystopian future starring Jason Momoa; and Dickinson, a reimagining of poet Emily Dickinson in her teenage years.Apple TV+s lack of library content might put it at a disadvantage, however: Unlike Netflix and the upcoming Disney+, Apple doesnt have rights to a back catalog of TV shows and movies, making Apple TV+s offerings slimmer than other online streaming services.Apple will need to maximize its original content in order to compete with the wide offerings of rival services like HBO Maxwhich has rights to classics like Friends and South Park but also new spinoffs like the Game of Thrones prequel, House of the Dragonand Disney+,with its vast library of popular franchises like Star Wars, Marvel and new spinoffs like The Mandalorian.Tangent: A recent study of the new streaming landscape found that after Disney+ (88%), Apple TV+ had the highest levels of consumer awareness (63%), followed by HBO Max (37%)slated for release in Spring 2020, and NBCUs Peacock (28%)releasing in April 2020.Big number: In a recent note, Morgan Stanley analysts see big potential for Apple TV+, estimating that it could generate $9 billion per year in revenue by 2025and thats if just one out of every ten Apple users subscribes to the new service.Crucial quote: Its a gift to our users and, from a business point of view, were really proud of the content, Apple CEO Tim Cook said after the companys third-quarter earnings report on Wednesday. Wed like as many people as possible to view it. This allows us to focus on maximizing subscribers, particularly in the early going. We think its a bold move.Further reading: Apple Bets On Jennifer Aniston And The Morning Show For Streaming Debut (Dawn Chmielewski) Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Send me a secure tip. Sergei Klebnikov I am a New Yorkbased reporter for Forbes, covering breaking newswith a focus on financial topics. Previously, I've reported at Money Magazine, The Villager NYC, and T... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

