Earnings Preview: What To Expect From Apple On Wednesday performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Adam Sarhan Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Enjoy investing in undervalued businesses and watching them grow. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin The Apple Inc. logo is displayed at one of the company's stores in Hong Kong, China, on Thursday, ... [+] Jan. 3, 2019. Apple cut its revenue outlook for the first time in almost two decades citing weaker demand in China, triggering a slump for Asian suppliers and a wave of lower price targets on Wall Street. Photographer: Anthony Kwan/Bloomberg 2019 Bloomberg Finance LPApple Inc. is scheduled to release earnings after Wednesdays close. As of Fridays close, the stockhit a record high of $246.73/share and closed just below that level. The stock is prone to big moves after reporting earnings and can easily gap up if the numbers are strong. Conversely, if the numbers disappoint, the stock can easily gap down. To help you prepare, here is what the Street is expecting:Gallery: 7 Cartoons About Tech8 imagesView galleryEarnings Preview:Appleis expected to report earnings of $2.84/share on $62.57 billion in revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called Whisper number is $2.93. The Whisper number is the Street's unofficial view on earnings.Company Profile & Various Businesses:Here is a brief company profile:Apple Inc. is engaged in designing, manufacturing and marketing mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players. The Company's products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, iPod, Apple TV, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and Mac OS X operating systems, iCloud, and a range of accessory, service and support offerings. It sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, third-party wholesalers, and resellers. Apple Inc. is headquartered in Cupertino, California.Competition:Apple competes with Microsoft, Samsung, Sony, HP, IBM, Cisco, Nokia, Motorola, Alphabet, among others.Pay Attention To How The Stock Reacts To The News:From where I sit, the most important trait I look for during earnings season is how the market and a specific company reacts to the news. Remember, always keep your losses small and never argue with the tape. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. Adam Sarhan Investor & Host of The #SmartMoneyCircle Podcast: Visit: SmartMoneyCircle.com for more. New book on the way: Psychological Analysis For Markets. Forbes Contributor.... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

