iPhone Prices Are Down 10%. That Opens A $133 Billion Opportunity For Apple performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); John Koetsier Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Consumer Tech John Koetsier is a journalist, analyst, author, and speaker. Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin Barclays analyst Tim Long is worried about Apple, saying that the average selling price of iPhones is dropping. However, thats entirely in line with Apples strategy of increasing services revenue, and opens up a $133 billion opportunity for the company.And a subscription service is an annual opportunity . . . which doesnt require shipping new hardware.GettyLong says that iPhone ASP is dropping 10% year-over-year in the last quarter of 2019, and will drop another 6.5% next year. Thats due to the cheaper prices that Apple has set on iPhone 11: $50 cheaper than last years iPhone XR. Long believes thats a problem . . . but the reality is that it opens up major new revenue opportunities for Apple.Andjust as importantits a welcome relief for iPhone buyers, who have been dealing with rising prices for years now.Why cheaper prices are good for AppleApple has been pushing hard on servicessubscription-based revenue streams for things like extra cloud storage, music, movies, news and games. Add it all up, and you can easily spend well over $100/month on Apple subscriptions. And that doesnt include AppleCare, which is essentially device insurance coverage.We set new all-time records for AppleCare, Music, cloud services and our App Store search ad business, and we achieved a new third-quarter revenue record for the App Store. Whats more, we had double-digit services revenue growth in all five of our geographic segments. Apple CEO Tim Cook, last quarterThats clearly the trend Apple is working toward. The question is: How many people can it sell those services to?At the beginning of 2019, Apple said there were 1.4 billion active iOS devices out of 2 billion sold. Add in sales for this year, and its not hard to believe that the company is at around 1.5 billion now. Assume each Apple customer has three iOS devicesprobably conservative, but its good to be cautious hereand you have a cool 500 million customers.(For the record, Credit Suisse estimated that there were 588 million Apple customers in 2016.)If you estimate that each Apple customer could potentially spend $50/month on those subscriptions, but divide by three to account for the family plans that Apple offers for its media-based subscriptions like Apple Music and News+, and Apple Arcade, you arrive at a cool $100 billion in potential revenue.Potential Apple subscription revenue.John KoetsierEven for a giant like Apple, thats a big deal.But project out a year or two when Apple has 2 billion active iOS devices, and the potential becomes even more: $133 billion in annual revenue. And that doesnt even include any app revenue from Apples App Store. Can Apple sell $50 worth of monthly subscriptions to every Apple customer? Probably not today.But as news gets harder and harder to find with paywalls, Apple News+ gets more and more attractive. As mobile games get more and more crammed with monetization features, Apple Arcade gets more and more attractive. As we take more photos, iCloud storage becomes more necessary. And if Apples TV+ continues to add exclusives, it becomes more interesting.So theres definitely a possibility. And thats what Apple CEO Tim Cook is shooting for. Every Apple device the company sells is a Trojan horse for services . . . streaming service, news subscription, TV subscription, streaming media, music, news, iCloud storage and multiple other Apple subscription services.Apples going to continue to work harder to ensure you enjoy each service and dont cancel your subscription.And the company is already at almost $50 billion in annual services revenue. In other words, the momentum is just beginning. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website or some of my other work here. John Koetsier I forecast and analyze trends affecting the mobile ecosystem. I've been a journalist, analyst, and corporate executive, and have chronicled the rise of the mobile econom... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

