Microsoft Solves One Of Japans Big Problems performance.mark = performance.mark || function(s) {}; performance.mark('content_title_end'); Panos Mourdoukoutas Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Markets Share to facebook Share to twitter Share to linkedin TOKYO, JAPAN - DECEMBER 16: Founder of Microsoft Bill Gates (C) meets President of FC Barcelona ... [+] Josep Maria Bartomeu (L) and vice president of FC Barcelona Jordi Cardoner (R) during the meeting between FC Barcelona Foundation and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in Tokyo, Japan on December 16, 2015. (Photo by German Draga / Barcelona Club/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)Getty ImagesMicrosoft has taught Japanese workers how to produce more by working less, solving one of the countrys big problems: overworking and under-accomplishing.Thats according to a CNN report, which features the results of a trial program the company introduced for its Japanese employees last summer.Once Japan was the worlds second largest economy, on track to replace the US in world leadership. That was back in the 1980s, when the Japanese economy was growing at a fire pace.It never happened. By the early 1990s, Japans economybegan cooling off, embarking on a prolonged stagnationthat haslasted to this day.There are many reasons for that. Like the trade war with the US, competition from China, and an aging labor force, as discussed in a previous piece here.But theres one more important factor: Japanese workers work hard, but accomplish little, as evidenced by internationaldatathat compareswork hours and productivity.In some cases, long working hours have been responsible forKaroshi"death by work.Microsoft has tried to solve this problem for its Japanese labor force with the"Work Life Choice Challenge. Launched last August, the programshut company officeson Friday, giving employees oneday off every week.Meanwhile, managers advised employees to cut down on the time they spendin meetings to no longer than 30 minutes. Employees were also encouraged to cut down on meetings altogether by using an online messaging app.Long meetings have been an important part of the Japanese way of doing business. They take place both at work and off work inkanpai, drinking sessions,as a traditional means toimprove communication and strengthen organization culture.The trouble is these meetings nurture a culture of work-alcoholism, while taking time away from family and leisure activities.Microsoft isnt the first company to experiment with different policies that encourage people to work less. Japanese companies and even Japanese universities and government agencies have programs that pay employees to take vacations. But none of these polices have gone as far to shut offices altogether,the way Microsoft has,so employees do not have the option to be at work.Now, the results of Microsofts experiment are in. And they reveal a surge in labor productivity. Microsofts sales per employee rose by almost 40%over the same period the previous year.Employees accomplished more by working less, that is.Disclosure: I own shares of MSFTGallery: The World's 10 Most Reputable Countries 201911 imagesView gallery Follow me on Twitter. Panos Mourdoukoutas Im Professor and Chair of the Department of Economics at LIU Post in New York. I also teach at Columbia University. Ive published several articles in professional jour... Read More Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy 2019 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices

